Home | Daily Mail Online


















































 





























 



Home




Showbiz




Femail




Royals




Health




Science




Sports




Politics




Money




U.K.




Video




Travel




Puzzles




Shop







Breaking News



                    
                    Joe Biden
                    
                



                    
                    Donald Trump
                    
                



                    
                    Economy
                    
                



                    
                    King Charles III
                    
                



                    
                    Prince Harry
                    
                



                    
                    Meghan Markle
                    
                



                    
                    Australia
                    
                




                    Games
                    




My Profile
Logout





              Login
            







Privacy Policy
Feedback








Wednesday, Oct 25th 2023
7AM
63°F
10AM
65°F

5-Day Forecast

 


 

Home
Updated: 09:08 EDT

Advertisement






          REVEALED: How Massachusetts father and his two sons scammed state lottery for $20 million by cashing more than FOURTEEN THOUSAND winning tickets
      







        
        Ali Jaafar (pictured left), 63, and Yousef Jaafar (pictured right), 29, were found guilty by a federal jury on Friday on several tax evasion and money laundering charges, according to the U.S. Attorney's office. Ali Jaafar was sentenced to five years in prison. Yousef Jaafar received a sentence of more than four years. They were also ordered to pay $6million in restitution and forfeit the profits from their scheme. Mohamed Jaafar (pictured center), another of Ali Jaafar´s sons who once interned for Democrat Senator John Kerry, pleaded guilty to his role in the scheme in November and got six months in prison.
      







58







209 comments
    















































































Queen Rania of Jordan denounces the West for its 'glaring double standards' in response to Israeli and Gazan deaths and calls out Biden for supporting 'butchery at a mass scale' in fiery interview









      
      Queen Rania of Jordan (main) spoke with barely-concealed fury at Israel's shelling of Gaza, and called the Western world 'complicit'. Rania said that the Western world was 'giving Israel cover' and that the 75-year conflict was 'a fight for freedom and for justice'. She also denounced the 'glaring double standard', saying that there was a 'shocking' difference in the global response to the killing of Israelis by Hamas and the killing of Gazans by Israel. Right, victims of Israeli airstrikes in Gaza, which Rania condemned as 'butchery'.
    





255







702 comments
    






2 videos
    








Mauricio Umansky and Emma Slater's chemistry on DWTSKeira Knightley enjoys a rare family day out in LondonBijou seen after being forced to cut ties with rapist DannyKirstie Alley's sprawling mansion sells for $5.2MArnie, 76, cozies up to girlfriend Heather, 48, on dateMauricio Umansky and Emma Slater's chemistry on DWTSKeira Knightley enjoys a rare family day out in LondonBijou seen after being forced to cut ties with rapist DannyKirstie Alley's sprawling mansion sells for $5.2MArnie, 76, cozies up to girlfriend Heather, 48, on dateMauricio Umansky and Emma Slater's chemistry on DWTSKeira Knightley enjoys a rare family day out in LondonBijou seen after being forced to cut ties with rapist DannyKirstie Alley's sprawling mansion sells for $5.2MArnie, 76, cozies up to girlfriend Heather, 48, on date










          I've lived in every major city in America - here are the three worst
      









        
        Content creator Taylor Offer described the three worst places to live in while in your 20s in a TikTok video after he himself has said he lived in almost every major city.
    






51







496 comments
    









          'Unimaginable' Hurricane Otis slams into Mexico's Acapulco as a catastrophic a Category 5 storm bringing 165mph winds and heavy rains
      









        
        Hurricane Otis landed in one of the most popular tourist resorts in Mexico after strengthening rapidly in the space of just 12 hours giving residents little time to prepare and evacuate.
    







73 comments
    






1 video
    






21 shares
    
'Unimaginable' Hurricane Otis makes landfall near Acapulco resort









          Mom of soldier Travis King, 23, who defected to North Korea blames child porn charges on stolen phone and says Army forced son to sign secrecy agreement over his trip to rogue nation
      









        
        The mother of soldier Travis King has claimed he is innocent and that the army made him sign an agreement to never reveal why he crossed into North Korea.
    







1 comment
    






1 video
    






      share
    
Mom of Travis King says Army forced him to sign secrecy agreement















'Killer' Las Vegas teens, 18 and 16, laugh in court and give FINGER to widow and daughter of retired police chief 'they filmed themselves killing after mowing him down with their car'










       
       Jesus Ayala, 18, and Jzamir Keys, 16, (top) were seen smirking, laughing and making obscene hand gestures as they faced court for the death of Andreas Probst, 64.  The retired police chief died after being struck (bottom) by a car while riding his bicycle down a highway, which police believe was intentionally done by Ayala and Keys in August. Taylor Probst (inset) said her father's accused killers flipped her and her mother off. Besides the fatal collision with Probst, which the two are said to have filmed, police also believe they had been involved earlier that day in another incident of a 72-year-old cyclist being mowed down.
     







84







280 comments
    






4 videos
    











          Father sues New Jersey school district over 'student-centered' transgender policy allowing children to change names and pronouns without parental consent: 'It's so out of whack'
      









        
        The federal lawsuit, filed in The United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, names Cherry Hill Public Schools as a defendant, and comes from concerned father Rick Short (pictured).
    






41







56 comments
    











          The sneaky trick American businesses are using to get extra tips: Square payment expert reveals how suggested amounts on gratuity screens are being inflated
      









        
        An expert in the Square 'tipping screen' payment system claims that American businesses are using them to get employees extra tips in a world where many believe they experience 'tipflation.'
    






33







142 comments
    

















            DEAR JANE: My wife and I have been struggling for money for YEARS - I just discovered she's been hiding a secret trust fund worth $450,000
        










                
                In her latest agony aunt column, best-selling author Jane Green shares some advice with a man whose marriage has been rocked by his wife's secret fortune. The man said that he and his wife have always struggled to make ends meet - to the point where they have nearly been left homeless on several occasions. So he was horrified when he discovered that his wife had been hiding a trust fund worth $450,000
            







46







259 comments
    











          Bud Light partners with UFC in the 'biggest sponsorship deal in the sport's history' as embattled beer company attempts to fight back after Dylan Mulvaney backlash: Dana White says their 'core values align'
      









        
        A source familiar with the deal told CNBC that the sponsorship deal is 'well into nine figures', and is the largest in the mixed martial arts promotion's history, following a rough year for the brewer.
    







2 comments
    






3 videos
    






22 shares
    
Bud Light partners with UFC as company fights back after backlash











          ‘Cuff me right now or it’s going to be bad’: What Alaska Airlines pilot Joseph Emerson told crew after trying to shut down plane's engines: Minutes later he tried to open the emergency exit then told cops he 'hadn't slept in 40 hours'
      









        
        The off-duty pilot, 44, was charged in court Tuesday and also faces 83 counts of attempted murder, to which he pleaded not guilty. He attempted to open the emergency exit after being cuffed.
    







6 comments
    






1 video
    






      share
    
What Alaska Airlines pilot Joseph Emerson told crew and cops










      ISRAEL AND HAMAS WAR
  
 






            All-female Israeli 'lionesses' combat unit of just 13 soldiers 'killed nearly 100 Hamas gunmen as they helped liberate kibbutz'
        










                
                Lieutenant Colonel Or Ben Yehuda and her 12 women soldiers of the Caracal Battalion led the frontline fightback from armoured personnel carriers after racing to a military post on the Egyptian border that was being attacked during the Hamas onslaught. With rockets raining down all around her, she learned that the terrorists had broken through Israel's border fence with the Gaza Strip and were heading for the Jewish settlements of Shlomit and Bnei Netzer on October 7. In a pre-battle address, Lt-Col Ben Yehuda then told the 12-women unit that they were strong and would not be defeated. She said: 'We are going to eliminate terrorists. [An] Infiltration into Israel is happening and it's spreading. Stay alert. We might cross paths. We are a strong squad.' Over the next four hours the 12-women unit engaged in a bitter fire-fight with Hamas, who sent wave after wave of gunmen against them. Despite some of the soldiers getting wounded, the all-female unit continued to fight.
            







128







134 comments
    













LIVE

          Israel-Hamas war LIVE: IDF warns Lebanon and Syria of 'damning strikes' if Hezbollah escalates hostilities on northern front
      









        
        MAILONLINE LIVEBLOG: Follow for updates as the conflict between Israel and Hamas is in its 19th day.
    







11 comments
    






18 shares
    
Israel-Hamas war LIVE: IDF warns Lebanon and Syria of damning strikes











          Brooklyn 'magician' who tore down Israeli hostage photos is suspended from day job by his Jewish father
      









        
        Noah Schaffer was filmed laughing in the face of a distraught Jewish woman who confronted him and his wife, Kelly, at Brooklyn Bridge Park.
    






73







18 comments
    






2 videos
    









Moment IDF bombs team of Hamas DIVERS trying to infiltrate Israel after terrorists entered the sea from a Gaza tunnel










       
       The IDF said that at least two Hamas terrorists attempted to access Israel via the sea at Zikim - just north of the Gaza Strip - after entering a nearby beach in Gaza via a tunnel. Footage posted by the Israeli military shows a coupe of naval vessels seeking out the target. Large explosions can then be seen in the water with a small section of the marine craft poking above the water. The two Hamas fighters were killed in an attack by fighter jets and soldiers from Israel's navy, who also destroyed a weapons storage facility being 'used by the terrorists'.
     








1 comment
    






1 video
    






      share
    
Moment IDF bombs team of Hamas divers trying to infiltrate Israel











          Head of Hezbollah meets with leaders of Hamas and Islamic Jihad to discuss how to ‘achieve victory for the resistance against Israel’ in Gaza
      









        
        The meeting saw Hezbollah's Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah sit down with Hamas deputy chief Saleh al-Arouri and Islamic Jihad chief Ziad al-Nakhala at an undisclosed location.
    






73







101 comments
    











          Stomach-churning audio reveals moment Hamas terrorist called his parents to boast 'Your son killed Jews,' before urging them to check WhatsApp photos he'd send of his ten victim's bodies
      









        
        The audio, played yesterday at a UN meeting in New York by Israel's Foreign Minister, hears how a Hamas gunman allegedly took the phone of one of his victims to call his mother and father
    






67







162 comments
    






3 videos
    











            Calls to expel students at George Washington University who projected horrifying message in support of Hamas terrorists' slaughter of 1,400 in Israel on to the school's library
        










                
                A group of students at George Washington University caused outrage resulting in calls for them to be expelled after the projected messages on to the school's library in support of Hamas ' barbaric assault on Israel. There have been calls for GWU president Ellen Granberg, pictured top left, to act on the student's actions. Messages that read 'Glory to our martyrs,' 'Divestment from Zionist genocide now' and 'Free Palestine from the river to the sea,' according to the activist group StopAntisemitism. This is just latest horrifying instance of student groups supporting terrorism across college campuses.
            








5 comments
    






1 video
    






17 shares
    
Calls to expel GWU students who issued message of support for Hamas











          Hezbollah - Israel’s monster to the north: Iran-backed terror group that could join war in the region is ten times stronger than Hamas, with 200,000 missiles, rockets and mortars
      









        
        Hezbollah's dual political and military setup echoes that of Hamas, but while both groups are backed by Iran's Islamic Republic, the Lebanese outfit has evolved into a far graver military threat
    







71 comments
    






1 share
    
Hezbollah and Hamas: How do their military arsenals match up?











          Gaza 'makes Hell look like a tea party', humanitarian doctor warns as Hamas claim 80 people are killed in overnight Israeli airstrikes and hospitals run out of fuel
      









        
        'Imagine a hospital with up to 15,000 civilian refugees, overcrowded with patients needing surgical care, and then the lights are going out', Dr. Mads Gilbert, from the Norwegian Aid Committee said
    







5 comments
    






3 videos
    






18 shares
    
Gaza 'makes Hell look like a tea party', top humanitarian doctor warns















Justice for Annie! Fury in Michigan as cops find family feeding an orphan deer - so wrestle it to the floor and SHOOT it dead in front of them 'because it was domesticated'










       
       Graphic video shared on social media shows Annie wrestling with Officer David Loza who had slipped a lead around her neck, before she is shot and killed outside the property. The incident happened on October 20 outside the home of Pamela Babb in Lawrence, Van Buren County. According to Babb, officers had attended the property on an unrelated child support incident when police officer Loza spotted the animal.
     







195







1.6k comments
    






1 video
    











          WARNING! A pedicure could cost you your LEG... a top surgeon shares vital tips you need to know for safe pampering
      









        
        A top diabetes surgeon has warned of the dangers of pedicures for the 37 million Americans with the chronic condition, due to the risk of foot infections that could lead to amputation.
    







28 comments
    






1 video
    






93 shares
    
How pedicures can cause diabetes patients to lose their leg











          Social media influencer HRH shares VERY controversial advice for ugly women wasting their money on college
      









        
        Social media influencer HRH Collection shared highly controversial advice for ugly women - 'Fix your face, don't go to college, use the money for plastic surgery.' 
    







284 comments
    






490 shares
    
Influencer HRH shares VERY controversial advice for ugly women










      HOUSE SPEAKER VOTE CHAOS
  
 




Your tax dollars NOT at work: Shameless GOP lawmakers BOO and bark 'Shut up!' at reporter for asking Speaker nominee Mike Johnson about his vote to overturn 2020 election, as paralysis hits day 22










       
       Republican lawmakers booed, jeered and told a reporter to 'shut up' when she tried to ask Speaker nominee Mike Johnson about his vote in 2020 to overturn the presidential election results. During a large press conference on Tuesday, Rep. Johnson (R-La.) immediately shook his head and put on an amused smile as ABC News reporter Rachel Scott began her question. 'You help lead the effort to overturn the 2020 election results, do you-' Scott started to ask before being shut down by a large group of the Republican House conference.
     








39 comments
    






4 videos
    






      share
    
GOP lawmakers BOO reporter questioning Speaker nominee Mike Johnson











          Republicans face Groundhog Day with Louisiana's Mike Johnson chosen as the FOURTH House Speaker nominee in three weeks despite being 89 votes short of the 217 needed to secure the gavel
      









        
        Louisiana Republican Rep. Mike Johnson is the party's fourth choice for a speaker nominee, winning 128 votes in an internal conference ballot.
    







412 comments
    






3 videos
    






9 shares
    
Mike Johnson becomes FOURTH GOP nominee in three weeks











          A far cry from the glamorous fundraisers: Bob Menendez's wife Nadine keeps a low profile at her home as her husband pleads not guilty to acting as a foreign agent to Egypt
      









        
        Nadine Arslanian Menendez drove away from their home in New Jersey after a man arrived to drop a vehicle off on the drive.
    







27 comments
    






1 video
    






1 share
    
Bob Menendez's wife Nadine keeps a low profile

















            Bijou Phillips looks strained as she emerges for first time since estranged husband Danny Masterson was expelled from Scientology and declared a 'suppressive person' while serving jail time for rape
        










                
                Bijou Phillips was seen looking strained on Tuesday, as she was pictured for the first time since her estranged husband Danny Masterson was expelled from Scientology and declared a 'suppressive person'.  The actress, 43, wore a light pink long-sleeve top and denim shorts, as she grabbed groceries from a store in Santa Ynez, California.  The former socialite kept it casual in a pair of grey Birkenstock sandals, and accessorized with a black shoulder bag.
            








9 comments
    






5 videos
    






35 shares
    
Bijou Phillips seen after cutting ties with rapist Danny Masterson








DAILY MAIL SHOPPINGView More >

CONTAINS AFFILIATED CONTENT 
MORE INFO


        Products featured in these articles are selected by our shopping writers, who
        scour the internet to let you know about great deals. If you click on or make a
        purchase using links in these articles, MailOnline will earn a small payment or
        commission on any sales. To find out more, click here







          BIG beauty deal: $32 for a powerful ionic hair dryer users say is 'just like a Dyson' and that saves you time by drying hair in mere minutes!
        






          SHOPPING: Save big on this popular hair dryer that users say is even better than Dyson because it dries without damage and slashes your drying time down to mere minutes - no matter how thick your hair.
        







              comments
            






              share
            
This $32 hair dryer compared to a Dyson cuts drying time to minutes








          Reduce cleaning time for under $20: Prevent dust and fallen leaves entering your home with a magnetic screen door that shoppers call 'unexpectedly life-changing'
        






          SHOPPING: Let fresh air into your home and allow pets to go outside without fear dirt or leaves will blow into your home. The Flux Phenom magnet screen door is easy to install - no screws necessary!
        







              comments
            






              share
            
This $19.99 screen door protects homes from an 'crazy' amount of dirt














          California DMV SUSPENDS Cruise driverless taxi permits to halt service in San Francisco after the cars caused chaos in the streets
      









        
        The California Department of Motor Vehicles has suspended Cruise's permits for deploying and testing driverless cars, arguing that the cars create an 'unreasonable risk to public safety.'
    







23 comments
    






3 videos
    






37 shares
    
California DMV SUSPENDS Cruise driverless taxi service in SF











          San Francisco will crack down on street vendors and homeless people as it cleans up its streets AGAIN ahead of APEC summit - with city employees given the option to wear bullet proof vests or be accompanied by armed cops
      









        
        Official emails revealed details of the California city's plan to improve its image ahead of APEC. One email said, 'I would like to seize as many hot dog carts as possible.'
    







106 comments
    






2 videos
    






29 shares
    
San Francisco to clean up streets ahead of APEC










      RACE FOR THE WHITE HOUSE
  
 






            Anything Joe can do: Gavin Newsom gets warm welcome from Xi Jinping as speculation grows California's Dem. Governor is plotting White House run
        










                
                ​ Jimmy McCloskey ​ Gavin Newsom was granted a surprise audience with China's leader Xi Jinping when he visited Beijing on Wednesday after being warmly welcomed by other senior leaders of the Chinese Communist Party. It was a welcome that stood in sharp contrast to the official dialogue between Beijing and Washington in recent years. Relations between the world's two largest economies are currently at a low ebb over a host of issues including China's aggression toward Taiwan, its activities in the South China Sea, trade and human rights. Despite that, Newsom, the Democratic California governor, said his meeting with Xi had been 'remarkably positive'. Newsom has continued to deny whirlwind speculation that he could replace the ailing Joe Biden, 80, on the Democratic presidential ticket. 
            








30 comments
    






1 share
    
Gavin Newsom gets a warm welcome from Xi Jinping











          Jill Biden opts for low-key state dinner with Australia because of the 'sorrow and pain' in Israel: First Lady cancels band B-52's performance and reveals the menu for visit by PM Albanese
      









        
        Jill Biden scrapped her plan to have the B-52s perform at Wednesday night's state dinner for Australia because of the 'sorrow and pain' being felt in the world. 
    







22 comments
    






2 videos
    






53 shares
    
Jill Biden opts for low-key state dinner with Australia











          Ron DeSantis mocks Trump for struggling to use a teleprompter: Florida governor compares rival to Biden in stinging attack saying he is in cognitive decline
      









        
        Ron DeSantis said Donald Trump had 'lost the zip on his fastball' and blasted his remark in New Hampshire telling people 'don't worry about voting.'
    







158 comments
    






1 video
    






30 shares
    
Ron DeSantis compares Trump to Biden in stinging attack

















            Star baseball player, 22, is charged with murder after losing control of his BMW and mowing down and killing four Pepperdine University seniors walking along Malibu's infamous 'Dead Man's Curve'
        










                
                Fraser Michael Bohm, 22, (left) was re-arrested Tuesday on four counts of murder in the deaths of Niamh Rolston, 20, Peyton Stewart, Asha Weir and Deslyn Williams, all 21, (pictured right). The four sorority sisters died at the scene when the BMW (insert) driven by Bohm - the night after his 22nd birthday - plowed into them as they stood by their cars close to a Pepperdine frat house off of the Pacific Coast Highway last week. Bohm was initially arrested after the crash and charged with gross vehicular manslaughter, but was 'subsequently released to allow detectives time to gather the evidence needed to secure the strongest criminal filing and conviction.' The sheriff's department is collecting evidence including toxicology, speed analysis, execution of search warrants, the police said in a press release .
            








70 comments
    






2 videos
    






21 shares
    
Driver re-arrested on 4 counts of murder of Pepperdine students











          'She's a queen with good taste to boot!': Dame Maggie Smith, 88, proves to be the ultimate fashion icon as she sends fans wild with new Loewe campaign
      









        
        The veteran of stage and screen, 88, delighted fans as she posed for a series of striking photographs while modelling the brand.
    







13 comments
    






2 shares
    
Dame Maggie Smith, 88, sends fans wild with new Loewe campaign











          A property deal with the Devil: Majority of home buyers would settle for a haunted house as sky-rocketing prices leaves Americans spooked
      









        
        A survey by Zillow Group Inc. found 67 percent potential home buyers could be convinced to put up with a few ghosts in the attic if it checked all their boxes.
    







13 comments
    






15 shares
    
Majority of home buyers would settle for a haunted house













          NOT for sale: Wikipedia owner sends strong message after Elon Musk offers a billion dollars to change company's name to D***ipedia - and it's not the first time he's shut down advances from the Grim Reaper of Twitter
      









        
        Wikipedia boldly declared over all of its pages Tuesday that it is 'not for sale' after Elon Musk offered $1billion to the owners of the online dictionary if they change its name to 'D***ipedia'.
    







172 comments
    






21 shares
    
Wikipedia owner sends strong message after Elon Musk offer to buy site











          Teen runaway Alicia Navarro's boyfriend, 36, is charged with sexual abuse of children over material found on his cellphone
      









        
        When police raided on their home Navarro answered the door as Davis tried to discretely hide a cellphone in a bin.
    






27







14 comments
    






2 videos
    

















            Are you a commitment phobe? Mind-bending optical illusion can reveal your attitude to relationships, depending on what you see first
        










                
                Instructing viewers from around the world to look at the blue and beige picture, @mia_yilin_ who regularly shares visual brainteasers on TikTok asked: 'What's the first thing you see in this picture?' One of the solutions indicates that you are scared of commitment, and that you' are also very prone to overthinking, causing unnecessary stress in your life'. However, if you spot the other image, it shows that you're a 'a highly empathetic person' who is 'quick to pick up on the emotions of others'.
            








117 comments
    






6 shares
    
Optical illusion shows you're a commitment phobe based on what you see











          Apple announces a surprise event next week fans hope may be launch of huge new product
      









        
        Apple has announced a surprise event on Halloween Eve - and the tagline 'Scary Fast' suggests that there might be more of a treat than a trick for tech fans.
    







13 comments
    






1 video
    






19 shares
    
Apple announces a surprise event next week with 'Scary Fast' tagline











          Fragrance influencer goes viral after sharing over-the-top tips for always smelling great - from using perfume in your iron to spraying it on LIGHTBULBS
      









        
        Warren Tafah, a digital marking specialist from Arkansas, went viral on TikTok after sharing seven 'fragrance hacks and tips you probably never heard of.'
    







63 comments
    






11 shares
    
I'm a fragrance influencer - and my hacks ensure I always smell great















Moment 'demon possessed' homeless LA man unzips pants and thrusts against woman - but woke DA George Gascon WON'T charge him with attempted rape










       
       A Long Beach woman was left in shock after she learned that the homeless man, who looked 'demon possessed,' unzipped his pants, grabbed her and began thrusting against her in broad daylight in a section of the city known as 'The Beast,' has only been charged with a misdemeanor. Rebekah Pedersen, pictured right, told ABC Los Angeles in an interview that she was told that Los Angeles District Attorney George Gascon's office was not willing to charge the suspect with felony attempted rape because the attack 'didn't say that's what he was going to do.' A witness described the attacker as 'salivating' prior to the attempted assault.
     








1 comment
    






1 share
    
Terrifying moment 'demon possessed'  man unzips  pants and grabs woman











          Seattle soccer league for underprivileged kids cancels season after shootings and drug overdoses from nearby homeless encampment - as coaches blame 'soft on crime' state for allowing gangs to move in
      









        
        Valor Soccer has now announced plans to vacate the field ahead of the next fall season - with its CEO last week citing shootings and drug overdoses at the nearby encampment.
    







65 comments
    






1 video
    






32 shares
    
Seattle youth soccer league cancels season, citing homeless encampment











          Man who won $22 million lottery confesses he hasn't told his own KIDS about his windfall - because he doesn't want them to think they can slack off while 'waiting for him to die'
      









        
        A lottery winner who called into a financial advice show shared why he and his wife have kept the news secret from nearly all their friends and relatives - including their own children.
    







31 comments
    






15 shares
    
Man who won $22 million lottery says he hasn't told his children















Former McDonald's corporate chef reveals why you'll NEVER see KNIVES in the fast food chain's kitchens










NEW

       A former McDonald's corporate chef has revealed the one essential cooking tool you'll never see in the fast-food chain's kitchen. Mike Haracz, who worked at the franchise until 2019, took to his TikTok account to share the surprising fact with his more than 207,000 followers. In his video, the Illinois-based chef answered a follower's question about whether or not employees had access to a knife - and revealed the answer to be 'no.' Mike explained that the utensil was simply not needed because all the food items arrived pre-cut.
     








1 comment
    






1 video
    






      share
    
Ex-McDonald's chef reveals cooking tool you'll never see in kitchen











          'I have never felt so OLD!' Disney fans are left in uproar after discovering that Zac Efron's hit movie High School Musical 3 premiered 15 YEARS ago
      









NEW

        High School Musical 3 is the only film in the instalment to hit theaters. It premiered on October 24, 2008. Fans were shocked about how long ago it came out.
    







         comments
    






25 shares
    
Disney fans feel 'old' after High School Music 3 came out 15 YEARS ago











          Pictured: The amazing 'pod' cabins for solo travellers available on sleek new European sleeper trains from this December
      









        
        This is just the ticket for solo travellers who like their privacy. Austria's national railway ÖBB has unveiled a new single-berth cabin on its new Nightjet trains.
    







4 comments
    






1 video
    






      share
    
The amazing new 'pod' cabins for solo travellers on European trains

















            Fresh photos of Travis Kelce's new $6m Kansas City mansion show off the luxury property's pool, stunning gardens and six-car garage - after the Chiefs star splashed out amid romance with Taylor Swift
        










                
                Fresh photos of Travis Kelce's new Kansas City mansion show that is fit for footballing and pop star royalty.  The tight end, 34, closed in on a deal last week to purchase a $6million mansion in a Kansas City neighborhood amid his blossoming romance with Taylor Swift, 33.  As his relationship with the pop sensation heats up, with Swift now having attended four of his games, the two-time Super Bowl winner reportedly felt he had to step up his game.  And new photos of his new pad show that it provides everything the NFL star desires and more.
            








75 comments
    






135 shares
    
Fresh photos of Travis Kelce's new $6m Kansas City mansion











          Britney Spears' ex-husband Jason Alexander hits back at her claims they only married because she was drunk and bored: 'We were in love!'
      









        
        Britney Spears' ex-husband Jason Alexander has refuted her claims that they only got married because she was 'very drunk' and 'bored with her life'.
    







33 comments
    






1 video
    






267 shares
    
Britney Spears' ex rejects claims they got married when she was drunk











          Humanity is at 'code red' due to climate change: 15,000 scientists pen urgent warning that Earth's capacity to support life is 'under siege' after 2023 shattered numerous temperature records
      









        
        The urgent warning comes from 15,000 scientists who first sounded the alarm on Earth's failing vital signs in 2019. The new report notes that 20 of the 35 planetary vital signs are being pushed to extremes.
    







481 comments
    






2 videos
    






65 shares
    
Humanity is at 'code red' due to climate change, scientists warn















Graduate who's just started her first 9-5 job breaks down in tears over her 'crazy' schedule - and moans that she has no energy to cook dinner or see friends










       
       Brielle, who moved to New Jersey for her first job after college took to TikTok to admit she's struggling to find time to have a life when she commutes for four hours each day. Many people flooded the comments in support of young woman who works in marketing, with several calling for a four-day work week.
     







55







405 comments
    











          Wisconsin woman pleads not guilty to murder after 'poisoning friend with EYE DROPS and stealing $300,000 from her': Victim was found in recliner with crushed medication on her chest in staged suicide
      









        
        Jessy Kurczewski is accused of murdering her friend Lynn Hernan, 62, in 2018 by using eye drops to poison her before allegedly staging the scene to look like suicide.
    






26







23 comments
    











          Weight loss coach who shed 45LBS reveals his simple 10-MINUTE 'no excuses' workout that can be done anywhere without any equipment - even in the SHOWER
      









        
        Andrew Holmes, founder of Weight Loss Warriors, has more than 264,000 followers on TikTok, where he shares fitness and nutrition tips.
    







8 comments
    






22 shares
    
I am a weight loss coach - my 'no excuses' workout takes 10 minutes










MAIL BEST
DISCOVER THE BEST DEALS FROM MAILONLINE
CONTAINS AFFILIATED CONTENT 
MORE INFO


        Products featured in these articles are selected by our shopping writers, who
        scour the internet to let you know about great deals. If you click on or make a
        purchase using links in these articles, MailOnline will earn a small payment or
        commission on any sales. To find out more, click here




View More







          This $19.99 screen door protects homes from an 'crazy' amount of dirt
        
SHOPPING: Let fresh air into your home and allow pets to go outside without fear dirt or leaves will blow into your home. The Flux Phenom magnet screen door is easy to install - no screws necessary!






          This $32 hair dryer compared to a Dyson cuts drying time to minutes
        
SHOPPING: Save big on this popular hair dryer that users say is even better than Dyson because it dries without damage and slashes your drying time down to mere minutes - no matter how thick your hair.






          Save 40% on a TENS unit with 20 pain-reducing modes for quick relief
        
SHOPPING: Find quick relief of deep aches and pains with this top-selling TENS unit that features 20 pre-set modes and various intensity levels, plus dual channels so you can customize your treatment.






          Save $10 on this bareMinerals loose foundation and concealer set
        
SHOPPING: This duo of bareMinerals foundation and concealer harnesses the power of minerals to provide flawless coverage while protecting the skin from harmful ultraviolet rays.






          Invity's serum is clinically proven to increase skin firmness by 46%
        
SHOPPING: If you're looking for anti-aging skincare proven to fill in wrinkles and increase firmness, the Invity Youth Activating Microemulsion is your answer to younger-looking skin.






          Skechers top-selling GOwalk slip-on sneakers are now on sale
        
SHOPPING: Step into a pair of the comfiest sneakers you'll ever own, courtesy of Skechers GOwalk, the iconic slip-on style that offers comfort, versatility, and flexibility with every move.






          Reduce wrinkles and tighten skin with this $20 vitamin C serum
        
SHOPPING: Give your skin care routine a makeover with this potent vitamin C serum formulated to reduce fine lines and wrinkles, improve hyperpigmentation, and leave skin healthier.


View More







Most Shared Right Now
Last 30 Minutes










            Palestinian-born Queen Rania of Jordan rages against the West for its support of Israel and says there's a 'glaring double standard' in treatment of war that 'began before October 7'
          
205 shares




            Furious Michigan town demands justice after cops kill beloved deer named Annie - as graphic video shows officer pinning doe and firing handgun
          
176 shares




            All-female Israeli 'lionesses' combat unit of just 13 soldiers 'killed nearly 100 Hamas gunmen as they helped liberate kibbutz'
          
119 shares




            Las Vegas teens Jesus Ayala, 18, and Jzamir Keys, 16, LAUGH in court then give the FINGER to family of police chief they 'filmed themselves mowing down and killing'
          
89 shares




            What women REALLY like doing in bed! Tracey Cox lifts the lid on the raunchy acts that men can't get enough of - and whether their partners secretly love or loathe them
          
80 shares






Advertisement






 
Vegan Fashion Week: Top designers go ethical
 

 
 
 
 













Bing


Site
Web


Enter search term:
Search















 
 
Femail Today










          Dancing With The Stars: Mauricio Umansky and Emma Slater perform sexy routine after being spotted holding hands following dinner date
          
          
          Chemistry was very clear
        











          Keira Knightley enjoys a rare family day with husband James Righton and their two children - after revealing plans to copyright her own FACE
          
          
          British actress's new plan
        











          Bijou Phillips looks strained as she emerges for first time since husband Danny Masterson was expelled from Scientology
          
          
          He was convicted for rape
        











          Georgina Rodriguez makes sure all eyes are on her on the soccer pitch in PVC boots and a $140,000 Birkin bag while supporting Cristiano Ronaldo
          
          
          Ronaldo's girlfriend is 29
        











          Fresh photos of Travis Kelce's new $6 million Kansas mansion show off the luxury property after he splashed out amid romance with Taylor Swift
          
          
          Boasts a huge pool
        











          Reduce cleaning time for under $20: Prevent dust and fallen leaves entering your home with a magnetic screen door that shoppers call ' unexpectedly life-changing'
          
          
          SHOPPING
        














          Kirstie Alley's sprawling Florida mansion sells for $5.2 MILLION... nearly one year after her shock passing amid secret colon cancer battle
          
          
          In Clearwater, Florida
        











          Arnold Schwarzenegger, 76, cozies up to girlfriend Heather Milligan, 48, as they step out of private members' club after promoting his new book
          
          
          He's 28 years her senior 
        











          Dame Joan Collins, 90, calls out Harry Styles, 29, over an alleged incident between them at the Met Gala in 2019
          
          
          She detailed the incident in her new memoir
        











          Prince Albert's son Alexandre Grimaldi-Coste, 20, says he's 'really close' with the Monaco royal family despite growing up out of the spotlight 
          
          
          The prince opened up
        











          Dame Maggie Smith, 88, proves to be the ultimate fashion icon as she sends fans wild with new Loewe campaign: 'A queen with good taste to boot!'
          
          
          Legendary British actress 
        














          BIG beauty deal: $32 for a powerful ionic hair dryer users say is 'just like a Dyson' and that saves you time by drying hair in mere minutes!
          
          
          SHOPPING
        











          Victoria and David Beckham hug it out as they wave goodbye to Brooklyn and wife Nicola - who stayed at their luxury Miami penthouse
          
          
          An emotional goodbye 
        











          Disney fans are left in uproar after discovering that Zac Efron's hit movie High School Musical 3 premiere 15 YEARS ago
          
          
          Premiered back in 2008
        











          Molly Ringwald, 55, and stylish daughter Mathilda, 20, sparkle in glittering sequin gowns as they lead stars at the American Ballet Gala
          
          
          The duo were in NYC
        











          Rachel Bilson becomes emotional while revealing she suffered multiple miscarriages before having daughter Briar Rose
          
          
          The O.C. alum revealed
        











          Kylie Jenner expands billion dollar empire! Makeup mogul sizzles in black leather trench coat and red pumps as she announces new clothing line Khy
          
          
          Announced via Instagram
        











          Richard Roundtree's career in photos after his death at 81: From Shaft to Being Mary Jane and Family Reunion
          
          
          Inside look at his career
        











          RHONY star Ubah Hassan and new investment banker beau Oliver Dachsel make their relationship red carpet official at gala event in NYC
          
          
          Relationship confirmed
        











          Jerry O'Connell reveals wife Rebecca Romijn was blindsided by the release of her ex husband John Stamos' bombshell new memoir 
          
          
          There was no heads up
        











          Emily Ratajkowski looks effortlessly chic in a black mini dress and sports a stylish red scarf as she attends Kérastase beauty event in Paris
          
          
          Dressed to impress 
        














          Britney Spears' ex-husband Jason Alexander hits back at her claims they only married because she was drunk and bored: 'We were in love!'
          
          
          Defended her choice
        











          Led Zeppelin frontman Robert Plant, 75, performs Stairway to Heaven for first time in nearly 20 years
          
          
          Alongside Andy Taylor, 62, from Duran Duran
        











          Liam Payne holds hands with girlfriend Kate Cassidy as he is seen for the first time since he was banned from driving for six months for speeding
          
          
          One Direction star
        











          Flawless skin alert! Get a bareMinerals loose mineral foundation AND a concealer in your choice of 12 flattering shades for $10 off
          
          
          SHOPPING
        











          Who are Richard Roundtree's ex-wives and how many children did he have?
          
          
          Often described as 'the first black action hero', the actor was a legend
        











          Mark Wahlberg, 52, goes shirtless to show off his ripped physique as he starts his day with a grueling 3:30am workout 
          
          
          Works hard for his figure
        














          Ellie Goulding puts on a racy display as she strips down to skimpy ensemble for latest gig
          
          
          The British singer was at  The Roundhouse in London for the show
        











          King Charles promotes 'hunky' aide Lt Col Johnny Thompson to 'super equerry' making him the Monarch's right-hand man
          












          Top Boy's Jasmine Jobson goes Instagram official with co-star boyfriend Kadeem Ramsay - but is forced to turn off comments after trolling
          
          
          Revealed the relationship
        











          Jennifer Lawrence looks elegant in demure black off-the-shoulder dress as she leads arrivals at WWD Honors... after THAT nude scene
          
          
          Actress was in NYC
        














          Vanessa Hudgens SHUTS DOWN pregnancy speculation as she hits back at followers who asked if she is expecting with fiance Cole Tucker
          
          
          She's not pregnant
        











          Calvin Klein, 80, cuts a casual display in a turtleneck sweater as he steps out for lunch with a friend in New York
          
          
          The designer was the epitome of chic
        











          Revealed: Leonardo DiCaprio and Tobey Maguire wore BASEBALL CAPS to black-tie affair in honor of their old 'p***y posse' pal Richie Akiva
          
          
          A-listers dressed down
        











          Scientifically proven to firm skin like a face lift: Turn back the clock with this youth-activating serum that increases skin firmness by 46% with no pain or needles (and results are instant)
          
          
          SHOPPING
        











          Oasis fans go wild as Liam Gallagher drops a major hint at a band reunion with cryptic message to brother Noel
          
          
          Britpop band returning?
        











          Leave the stage to Shakira! Gerard Pique disappears into a HOLE at an event while being distracted by his phone - but escapes unhurt from fall
          
          
          Soccer star's huge fall
        











          Kelly Rowland appears to forget meeting Meghan Markle in 2014 and claims Beyoncé concert this summer was the 'first time' she crossed paths with her
          
          
          Forgot the previous time
        











          Keri Russell is BAREFOOT as she steps outside her Brooklyn brownstone to talk to a man during her firewood delivery
          
          
          The Americans actress
        











          Richard Roundtree dead at 81: Actor who starred in the classic Shaft film franchise passes away following brief battle with pancreatic cancer 
          












          No ribbon cutting royal here! Queen Maxima of The Netherlands meets Kenya's Minster of Finance as she concludes visit to Africa
          
          
          She's been promoting inclusive finance
        











          Kelsea Ballerini, Maya Hawke and Rachel Zegler lead the bombshell parade as stars flock to Time100 Next 2023 gala in New York City
          
          
          Red carpet glamor
        











          Cher, 77, puts on a glam display while promoting her new gelato brand... after getting candid about 40-year age gap with her boyfriend, 37 
          
          
          Is in an age-gap couple
        











          John Stamos admits he didn't know what a 'street urchin' was when auditioning for role of Blackie Parrish on soap opera General Hospital
          
          
          Revealed in his memoir
        











          Step to it! Skechers top-selling GOwalk slip-on sneakers are now on SALE - don't miss these comfy and versatile shoes at a great low price (and you can save an extra $20!)
          
          
          SHOPPING
        











           Jenelle Evans DEFENDS her husband David Eason as he is charged with child abuse in case involving star's son Jace, 14
          
          
          Teen Mom star
        














          The Voice: John Legend swoops in to steal Mac Royals after 'gorgeous' Bee Gees song duet during Battles stage
          
          
          On the judging panel
        











          Kim Kardashian and daughter North show off their dance skills alongside reality star's BFF Lala Anthony in new fun TikTok: 'Party time!'
          
          
          Mother, daughter duo
        











          Jessica Alba gets VIP treatment from Usher as he serenades her at his Las Vegas residency show
          
          
          The actress was given extra special attention
        











          Florence Pugh puts on a stylish display in black sleeveless top and checkered trousers as she enjoys a solo shopping trip in Beverly Hills
          
          
          She went casually chic
        











          Britney brands Onyx Hotel Tour as 'stupid' and 'too sexual'... calling it a 'rebuttal' to ex Justin Timberlake's public comments about their sex life
          















          The Britney Spears 2007 VMAs performance you DIDN'T see: Unearthed dress rehearsal footage shows star pulling off flawless routine
          












          DWTS honors late judge Len Goodman with his wife Sue Barrett in attendance with emotional waltz routine led by Derek and Julianne Hough
          












          Kelsea Ballerini and boyfriend Chase Stokes pack on the PDA as they share a kiss while attending the Time100 Next 2023 gala in New York City
          












          'Wrinkles disappearing!' This tightening and brightening vitamin C serum boasts over 23 MILLION TikTok views - and it's reduced to just $20 (we've got before and after pics here!)
          
          
          SHOPPING
        











          Richard Roundtree's Shaft co-star Samuel L. Jackson and actress Gabrielle Union lead celebrity tributes to the iconic actor after his death at 81 from cancer
          












          Britney Spears had off-the-charts chemistry with Ryan Gosling in her 2002 audition for The Notebook... for part that ultimately went to Rachel McAdams
          
          
          She didn't get the role
        











          Juno star Elliot Page opens up about his brutal 'struggle to live' before he transitioned - admitting he 'selfishly' threw himself into relationships 
          
          
          An intimate interview
        











          Salma Hayek drapes her hourglass figure in flowy casuals and sports oversized sunglasses as she emerges from JFK Airport in New York
          
          
          Always elegant actress
        











          Feud over the font! Why did Princess Anne skip Prince Harry's Christening? And what did she do instead?
          
          
          Selecting Godparents was an issue
        











          Claire Danes cradles her three-month-old baby girl as she takes a stroll in NYC in a RARE public sighting since giving birth
          
          
          She's a doting mother
        














          RHONY star Ubah Hassan's secret boyfriend revealed to be handsome German investment banker Oliver Dachsel
          












          Paris Hilton stands up for her baby son Phoenix again after trolls mocked the size of his head: 'Targeting my child is unacceptable'
          












          Modern Family reunion! Sofia Vergara spends the afternoon with former co-stars Julie Bowen and Jesse Tyler Ferguson... after Joe Manganiello split
          
          
          Bonded with her co-stars
        











          Wrinkles, begone! This futuristic LED face mask with seven light colors leaves skin radiant and youthful - and you can save 62% for a limited time
          
          
          SHOPPING
        











          Real Housewives of New Jersey star Lauren Manzo addresses her divorce from Vito Scalia: 'This has been done for a very long time'
          
          
          Spoke on the split
        











          Playboy past of Real Housewives stars: Garcelle Beauvais, Lisa Rinna and Denise Richards' sexy shoots resurface ahead of RHOBH season 13
          
          
          Their past shoots
        











          Khloe Kardashian's ex Tristan Thompson under probe by DCFS over his petition for guardianship of his brother Amari Thompson, 17
          
          
          He has special needs
        











          Kendall Jenner showcases her toned abs in a cropped top and white jeans at her 818 Tequila meet and greet event in Manhattan Beach
          
          
          The model was in LA
        











          Kyle Richards hits the beach with rumored lover Morgan Wade in Malibu - after estranged husband Mauricio Umansky held hands with Emma Slater
          
          
          Romance on the beach
        











          Melanie Griffith, 66, looks oh-so chic as she shows off her sleek bob and trim figure during spot of shopping in Beverly Hills
          
          
          Treated herself in LA
        














          Jenelle Evans' husband David Eason is CHARGED with child abuse in case involving Teen Mom star's son Jace, 14, who ran away THREE times
          












          Red Hot Chili Peppers drummer Chad Smith RENTING OUT his beachfront Malibu home for $95K A MONTH
          
          
          The musician also has a real estate portfolio
        











          Joe Jonas enjoys quality time with his daughters Willa and Delphine in NYC... after reaching a custody agreement with Sophie Turner
          
          
          They're three and one
        











          Byte into a better smile for less! See the Before and After photos from shoppers who've used bespoke Byte trays for straighter teeth in four months - and it costs just $17.95 to start
          
          
          SHOPPING
        











          Best. Christmas. Ever! official trailer: Heather Graham shows up at Brandy's house uninvited and spends the holidays with her picture-perfect family
          
          
          Just in time for holidays
        











          Justin Timberlake has NOT contacted ex Britney Spears about her tell-all bombshells but is 'NOT happy' at how he's portrayed 
          












          Timothee Chalamet rocks a Yankees baseball cap as he visits the Kardashians' favorite plastic surgeon in LA... amid Kylie Jenner romance
          
          
          He's dating Kylie
        











          Britney Spears recalls horrific run-in with Justin Timberlake at the 2007 VMAs before THAT Gimme More performance
          
          
          Was having panic attack 
        











          Geri Halliwell gives Kim Kardashian an official Spice Girls name... after reality star claimed she was asked to fill in for Victoria Beckham
          
          
          Former Spice Girl
        











          Taylor Swift teases possible 'from the vault' lyrics ahead of her upcoming 1989 (Taylor's Version) release
          
          
          The singer is about to release a new hit
        














          Jisoo and Ahn Bo-hyun SPLIT! BLACKPINK superstar has separated from actor beau 'due to their busy schedules' after two months of dating
          












          Jennifer Garner flashes her megawatt smile as she joins her fellow actors in making their voices heard at SAG-AFTRA strike in LA
          
          
          She made a stand
        











          Rami Malek, 42, and Emma Corrin, 27, look 'like two giddy teens' as they go shopping at a home improvement store in the UK
          
          
          Their chemistry is red hot
        











          Julia Fox claims Kim Kardashian sparked her split from Kanye West by 'telling him actress was a DRUG ADDICT'
          
          
          Julia has revealed the dirt on the relationship
        











          Michelle Williams sets the internet alight with HILARIOUS recording from Britney Spears' audiobook in which she recreates Timberlake impersonation
          












          Taylor Swift and Brittany Mahomes are seen REHEARSING their cringe-worthy handshake - as video shows the pop star teaching some moves
          
          
          They're new besties
        











          Fear the Walking Dead star Sam Underwood will NOT face charges after arrest for domestic battery for 'roughing up' woman during heated argument
          












          Kim Kardashian shows off flowers sent by Beyonce for her 43rd birthday... before sharing even more floral arrangements sent by her celeb pals
          












          Elizabeth Olsen and husband Robbie Arnett link arms after shopping for her nephew in NYC... months after sister  Ashley quietly gave birth to a baby boy
          












          Paris Jackson wears an autumn-inspired striped sweater and very ripped jeans during a stroll with her dog in West Hollywood
          















          She is a top model married to a pop star and her dad and uncle are famous Hollywood actors. As a child she is unrecognizable. Who is she?
          
          
          Can you guess the star? 
        











          Khloe Kardashian flaunts her rock-hard abs as she models a tank top for Good American after revealing new 'goals'
          












          Has Sasha Obama found herself a post-grad pad? Former First Daughter is seen picking up MOVING BOXES in LA
          
          
          Was living with Malia 
        











          Tori Spelling dresses down in jeans and a T-shirt as she grabs sushi for lunch - after she abruptly moved out of her $18,000-a-month rental home
          












          Taylor Swift boards a private jet leaving new beau Travis Kelce in Kansas City - but will she show up in Denver?
          
          
          The party was over 
        











          Kate and William trump Meghan and Harry in the style stakes as Prince and Princess of Wales are crowned the best dressed couple in the world
          












          Addison Rae shows off her dancer's legs in a black mini skirt on a coffee run - after grabbing a copy a Britney Spears' new book The Woman in Me
          































Leave the stage to Shakira! Gerard Pique disappears into a HOLE at an event while being distracted by his phone - but escapes unhurt from fall










       
       Former Barcelona star Gerard Pique fell down a hole by the stage at the launch of his Kings League Americas competition on Tuesday night. The Kings League is a seven-a-side tournament that was established by Pique in Barcelona last year, and he is now looking to take the event to North America. Pique attended the launch event, and following a presentation he made his way to the side of the stage to greet fans.
     








4 comments
    






15 shares
    
Gerard Pique falls down a HOLE at Kings League Americas launch event











          Heartbreaking three words little boy told his mum after learning he will soon go blind because of a medical blunder
      









        
        Hamza Ibrahim, 8, from Adelaide, was just like any other schoolboy, but earlier this year he started experiencing headaches, nausea and general clumsiness.
    







         comments
    






      share
    
Heartbreaking three words little boy told his mum after losing sight











          Why is Starbucks matcha latte making people feel sick? Fans claim drink causes bloating and cramps on an empty stomach
      









        
        The Irish fitness influencer who is currently based in Dubai posted a video on TikTok of herself doubled over in pain after drinking the Starbucks matcha latte.
    







6 comments
    






1 video
    






      share
    
Why is Starbucks matcha latte making people feel sick?

















            The best places to visit in 2024 named by Lonely Planet: Philadelphia, Nairobi, far north Scotland, Paris and Australia's Kangaroo Island are among the destinations you MUST explore next year
        










                
                Lonely Planet's newly released Best In Travel 2024 book crowns the top 10 countries, top 10 regions, and top 10 cities to visit next year. Two new categories - the top 10 'value' and top 10 'sustainable' destinations - have also been introduced this year, to mark Lonely Planet's 50th birthday. This list promises to 'open up a year of incredible adventures' for travellers...
            







83







616 comments
    











          Massachusetts mom who suffered post-partum psychosis 'researched ways to kill before she strangled her three children to death' and tried to take her own life, court documents reveal
      









        
        The Massachusetts mother accused of strangling her three children to death with exercise bands while suffering from post-partum psychosis allegedly researched ways of killing.
    







54 comments
    






2 videos
    






21 shares
    
Massachusetts mom Lindsay Clancy researched ways to kill











          THIS is America's most rodent-infested city ... and it's not New York! Chicago declared 'rattiest' city by pest control company Orkin
      









        
        Pest control company Orkin looked at the number of rodent treatments performed and declared Chicago as the most rodent-infested city for 2023 Monday.
    






79







157 comments
    

















            Kirstie Alley's sprawling Florida mansion sells for $5.2 MILLION... nearly one year after her shock passing amid secret colon cancer battle
        










                
                The late Kirstie Alley 's lavish Clearwater, Florida mansion has officially sold for $5.2 million - after being put on the marker earlier this year in February for $5.95 million. The Cheers actress notably passed away late last year in December 2022 following a secret battle with colon cancer at the age of 71. Her shock death was announced by her two children: son William, 31, and daughter Lillie, 29. The estate - which was confirmed to be sold by Realtor.com - notably has nine bedrooms, 10 bathrooms as well as a heated swimming pool in the spacious backyard.
            








45 comments
    






1 video
    






9 shares
    
Late Kirstie Alley's sprawling Florida mansion SELLS for $5.2 million











          Jenelle Evans DEFENDS her husband David Eason as he is charged with child abuse in case involving Teen Mom star's son Jace, 14
      









        
        Jenelle Evans has defended her husband David Eason in the wake of his charge for child abuse after her son Jace, 14, went missing three times in six weeks .
    







10 comments
    






3 videos
    






23 shares
    
Jenelle Evans DEFENDS husband as he is charged with child abuse











          Hit-and-run driver kills man and then drives for TWO MILES with victim lodged in his windshield before dumping his body in a quiet residential street
      









        
        Horrified neighbors called Prince George's County police shortly before 4am on Saturday when they saw the dead body of Franklin Mendez outside their homes in Ardwick Ardmore Road.
    







187 comments
    






68 shares
    
Hit-and-run driver drove two miles with body lodged in wind shield

















            'We have a male drowning right now!' Dramatic audio reveals Secret Service agent's 911 call for help after Obama's personal chef fell off a paddle board and drowned on Martha's Vineyard
        










                
                Barack Obama's Secret Service agent called 911 chef Tafari Campbell (left with the Obamas) fell off a paddle board on Martha's Vineyard (right). The agent reported that that there were already swimmers in the water trying to find the 'house guest' who'd fallen. Audio from two initial calls, shared Tuesday by the Dukes County Sheriff's Office, were heavily redacted, bleeping out names and other specifics about those involved and the property. The calls show early chaos as Secret Service, staff and others on site scrambled to get help after the Obamas' personal chef Campbell, 45, fell into the water.
            







93







33 comments
    






1 video
    











          'How many more deaths until something is done?' Furious Malibu residents unleash on city officials for not cracking down on speed along 'Dead Man's Curve' after four Pepperdine students were killed by driver
      









        
        Michel Shane, a Hollywood filmmaker who lost his daughter on the PCH in 2010, told DailyMail.com that 'officials, they just don't seem to care', as residents plead for safety upgrades.
    







10 comments
    






2 videos
    






17 shares
    
Furious Malibu residents unleash failure to fix 'Dead Man's Curve'











          'You've got to get real men!' Jenna Bush Hager urges Kim Kardashian to use male models with 'DAD BODS' like her husband Henry to promote her new SKIMS line
      









        
        Jenna, 42, called for 'real men' to be included in Kim's ad campaign for her new SKIMS line for men, claiming the muscly models she has hired don't need the shapewear range.
    







42 comments
    






1 video
    






22 shares
    
Jenna Bush Hager calls for male Skims models with 'dad bods'

















            Richard Roundtree's career in photos after his death at 81: From Shaft to Being Mary Jane and Family Reunion
        










                
                Richard Roundtree died on Tuesday afternoon aged 81 after a short bout with pancreatic cancer. The actor, noted as being the 'the first black action hero' had a career in front of the camera spanning five decades. He was undoubtedly best known for his portrayal of private detective John Shaft in the 1971 film Shaft and its four sequels.
            








11 comments
    






1 video
    






14 shares
    
Richard Roundtree's career in photos after his death at 81

















Follow
DailyMail




Subscribe
Daily Mail




Follow
@dailymail




Follow
DailyMail




Follow
MailOnline




Follow
Daily Mail












 
 
DON'T MISS










          Blake Lively glows as she walks arm-in-arm with her husband of 11 years Ryan Reynolds in NYC... the day after the Deadpool actor's 47th birthday
          
          
          Spotted in Manhattan 
        











          Mandy Moore, 39, shares a rare family portrait with husband Taylor Goldsmith and their children Ozzie, one, and Augustus, two
          
          
          A new brand ambassador 
        











          Zendaya shows off her toned physique in workout clothes as she and boyfriend Tom Holland shop at upscale supermarket chain
          
          
          Erewhon Market in LA 
        











          Stranger Things star Millie Bobby Brown reveals her PIMPLES as she goes makeup free promoting skincare line on social media: 'Send help!'
          
          
          Exposed her bare skin
        











          The View host Alyssa Farah Griffin DEFENDS Justin Timberlake after Britney Spears' abortion revelation - insisting the pair BOTH 'went through hell'
          
          
          'Deserves a little grace' 
        











          Taylor Swift and Jackson Mahomes filmed celebrating Chiefs win together at Arrowhead Stadium - after star's fans FUMED at him being in VIP box
          
          
          Amid battery allegations 
        











          Jenna Bush Hager urges Kim Kardashian to use male models with 'DAD BODS' like her husband Henry to promote her new SKIMS
          
          
          She hired pro athletes 
        











          Harry and Meghan appear in Family Guy as work-shy grifters who post Instagram photos worth $250,000 and earn Netflix cash for 'no-one knows what'
          
          
          Satirical cartoon show
        











          The Terminal List actor Cedric Jones dead at 46: He went from homeless to a personal trainer to working with Chris Pratt
          
          
          Passed away 'suddenly'
        











          Britney Spears calls ex Sam Asghari 'a gift from God' in bombshell memoir as she credits him for giving her strength to speak out against conservatorship
          
          
          Wrote before their split 
        











          Larsa Pippen, 49, holds hands with boyfriend Marcus Jordan, 32, for dinner date in LA... after he gushes about her on Instagram post
          
          
          She's 17 years his senior
        











          Prince Harry pulls a VERY funny face in never-before-seen photo as he poses up a storm alongside LAFC owner and investment advisor
          
          
          Watched Inter Miami 
        











          Brian McKnight changes his NAME nine months after the birth of his youngest son - as he's slammed by his eldest son and disgusted fans
          
          
          Controversial decision 
        











          Breaking Bad's Bryan Cranston and Aaron Paul reunite to SERVE DRINKS behind the bar at Drake's birthday party in Miami
          
          
          Former co-stars reunited 
        











          The View fans are left fuming after Whoopi Goldberg 'cuts off' Sunny Hostin during Israel-Palestine conflict debate, in favor of Taylor Swift chat
          
          
          Viewers weren't happy 
        











          Taylor Swift and Travis Kelce enjoy a romantic dinner at upscale Argentine steakhouse in Kansas City to top off whirlwind weekend
          
          
          Date night in Kansas 
        











          Danny Masterson is expelled from Scientology and declared a 'suppressive person' 
          
          
          Members and wife Bijou Phillips must cut all ties 
        











          Sanna Marin, Finland's former 'Party PM' reinvents herself and eyes up Hollywood by signing with talent agent and posing with Sharon Stone
          
          
          Finnish politician is 37
        











          John Stamos recalls the chaotic morning of Bob Saget's death, his two nose jobs, and his VERY close encounter with co-star Vanity
          
          
          His new memoir has hit the shelves 
        











          John Stamos recalls the conversation he had with Lori Loughlin when college admissions scandal erupted: 'Are you watching the news?'
          
          
          Massive legal scandal
        











          Kanye West's Italian concert is cancelled for 'safety reasons' following local protests over rapper's Hitler comments
          
          
          Due to perform last week
        











          Hailey Bieber sets the record straight: Model shuts down constant and 'disheartening' pregnancy rumors as she poses in skimpy swimwear 
          
          
          The 26 year old sizzled 
        











          Former back-up dancer Carrie Ann Inaba says Madonna would fine the dancers $100 for every MINUTE they were late during The Girlie Show tour in 1993
          
          
          Inside Madonna's tour 
        











          Chris Pratt hilariously jokes about wanting to toss ALL of his 'darling wife' Katherine Schwarzenegger's trophies that her mom Maria Shriver has kept
          
          
          Kept them for 33 years 
        











          David Beckham can't keep his hands off his wife Victoria on Miami night out as the couple put on a loving display after Rebecca Loos spoke about 'affair'
          
          
          Retired soccer star is 48
        











          Celebrities urge Biden to call for a ceasefire in Gaza - in a letter signed by America Ferrera, Channing Tatum, Dua Lipa, Florence Pugh and more stars
          
          
          Dozens of stars signed
        











          Jacob Elordi models a long coat in NYC after revealing how he got into character to play Elvis for Priscilla: 'I've heard EVERY recorded word he ever said'
          
          
          Stars in the new biopic 
        











          Queen Letizia of Spain oozes elegance in a matching navy top and skirt as she joins King Felipe in Tenerife to honor those who have helped battle forest fires
          
          
          She's a stylish royal 
        











          Olivia Wilde covers up in a hoodie stamped KATE on front as she shows off her toned legs while heading to the gym in Los Angeles
          
          
          The 39-year-old actress,  bundled up for the fall
        











          Lionel Messi's wife Antonela Roccuzzo joins Victoria Beckham for Miami 'girl's lunch'... as pair dress up to celebrate their friend Isabela Grutman
          
          
          For her fashion launch 
        











          Frances Bean Cobain is MARRIED! Kurt Cobain's daughter and Tony Hawk's son Riley have tied the knot and guess which musical icon acted as celebrant
          
          
          Offspring of celebrities
        











          Martha Stewart, 82, says she has dressed a certain way since she was 17 even though she appeared COMPLETELY different as a teen
          
          
          She was 17 years old back in 1958 
        











          Britney Spears details her battle with postpartum depression after welcoming her two sons
          
          
          'There wasn't the same conversation about mental health back then' 
        











          David Beckham beams with Brooklyn and Lionel Messi while wife Victoria cosies up to Nicola Peltz at dinner - as the couple put on a united front
          
          
          After 'affair' revelations 
        











          Cardi B wears nothing but a nude thong as she shows off her giant back tattoo in a racy topless twerking video 
          
          
          The song Freaky played in the background
        











          Priscilla first look photos: Jacob Elordi stars as Elvis Presley with Cailee Spaeny as his wife Priscilla Presley in a film from Sofia Coppola
          
          
          Highly anticipated biopic
        











          Victoria and David Beckham make first public appearance after Rebecca Loos spoke out about 'affair'
          
          
          Couple joined Lionel Messi and wife in Miami 
        











          John Stamos reveals he almost DATED Full House co-star Lori Loughlin - until he met future wife Rebecca Romijn: 'She's my Sandra Dee'
          
          
          An almost-romance 
        











          Jonathan Majors' ex-girlfriend is accused of assaulting him and will surrender to NYPD - seven months after he was arrested for 'attacking' the dancer
          
          
          Creed III actor is 34 
        











          Elle Fanning bundles up in cream duster coat and olive hued boots post Pilates session in NYC... days after her Broadway debut was announced
          
          
          Preparing for her next gig 
        











          Real Housewives of New Jersey star Lauren Manzo's husband Vito Scalia files for divorce from reality star after eight-year marriage
          
          
          'Irreconcilable differences'
        











          Inside Brittany Mahomes' flashy wardrobe: How NFL star's wife loves going over-the-top with fashion... as fans urge her to use a stylist
          
          
          Taylor Swift uses a stylist
        











          Taylor Swift thinks Travis Kelce's NFL dominance is 'beyond sexy' and loves going to games so she can bond with friends and family
          
          
          He thinks she's good luck
        











          Halloween, Kardashian style! Kylie, Khloe and Kourtney show off their spooky decorations that include pumpkins, skeletons and cookies
          
          
          Prepared to scare 
        











          Jill Biden woos fashion's A-List at Anna Wintour's $12M New York Townhouse: First lady joins Michael Kors, Tory Burch and Huma Abedin
          
          
          Fundraising event for Joe
        











          Britney Spears says she was 'clueless' Kevin Federline had a baby on the way and a toddler when they first started dating: 'I was living in a bubble'
          
          
          Revealed in her memoir 
        











          Britney Spears reveals she slept in the same bed as her older brother until the SIXTH GRADE - when mom Lynne finally forbade it and insisted she return to her room
          
          
          They had a close bond
        











          Britney Spears references Madonna 18 times in her memoir The Woman In Me... and reveals the icon mentored her following Justin Timberlake split
          
          
          'Needed a little guidance' 
        











          Daniel Radcliffe to executive produce documentary about his stunt double who was paralyzed in horror Harry Potter film set accident
          
          
          Famed for Harry Potter 
        











          Priscilla star Jacob Elordi admits watching the biopic alongside Priscilla Presley herself felt 'INVASIVE' - after Elvis' estate blasted film as a 'horrible movie'
          
          
          Branded a college film 
        











          Emily Ratajkowski puts on a VERY leggy display in a strapless black mini dress as she attends a beauty event in Paris
          
          
          Teamed her dress with heels and a red scarf
        











          Mamma Mia 3 'confirmed' by a VERY unlikely source after film's producer revealed Meryl Streep would return 'if the script was right'
          
          
          Original film from 2008 
        











          Who is Massive Attack star Angelo Bruschini's wife Jessica Merritt?
          
          
          Massive Attack star Angelo Bruschini died, aged 62, following a battle with rare and aggressive lung cancer 
        













LIVE

          Britney Spears book blog: The Woman In Me revelations as world reacts to Notebook audition and Justin Timberlake fans leap to his defence
          












          Taylor Swift's fans spot one detail about her first kiss picture with Travis Kelce that proves she was REALLY in the mood for romance
          
          
          Displayed their romance
        











          Brooklyn Beckham has his hands full as he leaves swanky Miami restaurant with a $4,600 magnum of wine - and cheekily grabs wife Nicola Peltz's bottom
          
          
          Beckham family outing 
        











          Lupita Nyong'o can't wipe the smile off her face as she enjoys a day out with her mother and a friend in the wake of split from boyfriend Selema Masekala
          
          
          She's newly single 
        











          As Prince William is pictured with his arm around Prince George's shoulders, a reminder just how much he resembles his trailblazing mother
          
          
          Princess Diana's son
        











          The 10 most explosive revelations from Britney Spears' new memoir The Woman in Me
          
          
          Britney Spears' memoir has been released
        











          Gwyneth Paltrow is 'looking to buy a house in quiet Cornish village' as she joins Cate Blanchett and Jason Mamoa in snapping up mansions on the coast 
          
          
          English countryside town
        











          Keith Richards, 79, says a Rolling Stones hologram concert 'is bound to happen' - whether he likes it or not
          
          
          He's a rock veteran
        











          Irina Shayk, 37, is 'not happy' her ex Bradley Cooper has sparked up romance with 'younger' supermodel Gigi Hadid, 28
          
          
          She's a decade younger
        











          La Toya Jackson reveals why her sister Janet would never do The Masked Singer and shares special nickname they had for brother Michael
          
          
          The Jackson family 
        











          Jessie J reflects on her heartbreaking miscarriage as she reveals unreleased track about suffering the grief of baby loss
          
          
          The singer is 35
        











          Mission: Impossible 8 release date is delayed by almost a YEAR amid the ongoing actors' strike
          
          
          Tom Cruise was originally scheduled for 2024
        











          Nicole Scherzinger sets pulses racing in a busty nude midi dress as she enjoys a night out in Mayfair
          
          
          The former Pussycat Doll lead singer is 45
        











          Jack Whitehall steps out with his baby - after comedian was slated for show ad that referred to expectant moms as genderless 'pregnant people'
          
          
          Out with his partner 
        











          Paloma Faith reveals her daughter, six, asks her about gender transitioning as the singer insists there are no taboo topics in her family
          
          
          No limits in her household
        











          Vegan Fashion Week: Top designers pushing the envelope for ethical practices in the industry and setting trends
          
          
          The world's leading ethical luxury event in LA
        











          Massive Attack star dead: Guitarist Angelo Bruschini, 62, has passed away following a battle with rare and aggressive lung cancer
          
          
          Rock band from the '90s 
        











          Britney Spears reveals she turned down a role in Chicago because she feared her obsessive method acting would make her 'become a KILLER'
          
          
          Turned down the role
        











          Ray Winstone walks daughter Jaime down the aisle as she marries DJ James Suckling in front of 250 guests during magical Sicilian wedding ceremony
          
          
          Actor was close to tears
        











          LeBron James plans Netflix series inspired by NFL's 'Quarterback' show - and holds talks with Peyton Manning and Barack Obama's production companies
          
          
          Netflix basketball show
        











          Handwritten letter from the late Queen Elizabeth to her midwife who delivered Prince Edward reveals heartwarming comments about her youngest son
          
          
          King Charles' brother 
        











          Michelle Williams dotes on her children during family outing with husband Thomas Kail... ahead of release of Britney Spears' memoir
          
          
          She's a doting mother
        











          Britney Spears is SLAMMED by fans for criticising Christina Aguilera and Justin Timberlake's Rolling Stone cover
          
          
          They didn't get behind her
        











          Taylor Swift's new bestie Brittany Mahomes and her NFL star husband Patrick treat their two kids to day at pumpkin patch
          
          
          Family activity for fall
        











          Queen Letizia of Spain looks pensive as she visits Tenerife with King Felipe to learn how the area has been impacted by ongoing forest fires
          
          
          Royals were in Spain 
        











          Dylan Penn, 32, puts on a cheeky display in VERY racy black gown with sexy cutouts at Gabrielle's Angel Foundation charity event in NYC
          
          
          Daughter of Sean Penn
        











          Britney Spears' former assistant recalls supporting star through her head shaving incident and says singer tried to make friends with strangers 
          
          
          Former employee spoke
        











          Keith Richards, 79, says The Rolling Stones 'have another album in them' after rock veterans released their first collection of new music in 18-years
          
          
          They're still going strong
        











          Paloma Faith opens up on her 'devastating' but 'liberating' split from husband Leyman Lahcine
          
          
          'It's the worst thing that's ever happened to me'
        











          Cher, 77, admits the 40-year age gap with boyfriend Alexander Edwards, 37, is noticeable as she opens up on their 'happy' romance
          
          
          In an age-gap couple
        











          Simon Pegg stuns guests during London Literary Festival Q&A after swearing at a female fan for demanding Hot Fuzz sequel
          
          
          'It was uncalled for' 
        











          Britney Spears blasts Ryan Seacrest! Host is latest target of star's memoir as she slams him for focusing on 'whether she was a fit mother' 
          
          
          In a 2007 interview
        











          Mary J. Blige, 52, puts on VERY leggy display in a sparkling gown with thigh-high split at Gabrielle's Angel Foundation charity ball in New York
          
          
          Looks decades younger
        











          Katy Perry shares a victorious kiss with fiancé Orlando Bloom after beating him during a star-studded charity pickleball tournament
          
          
          Competitive couple kissed
        











          Inside Jaime Winstone's star-studded Italian wedding: Ray Winstone is a proud father of the bride as his daughter ties the knot with DJ James Suckling
          
          
          Rustic Sicilian ceremony 
        











          A twerking bride, plenty of PDA and A-list partygoers: Inside Jaime Winstone and DJ James Suckling's raucous wedding reception
          
          
          Italian wedding in Sicily 
        











          Good Omens 'set for season three renewal' as major name exits the show and 'heartbroken fans say the star will be sorely missed'
          
          
          Likely to be the show's last chapter
        











          Sarah Jessica Parker, 58, says she 'doesn't understand' the emphasis placed on ageing as she rules out  having Botox: 'I have to move my eyebrows'
          
          
          Sex And The City star
        











          Nicole Scherzinger, 45, puts on a leggy display in a white mini dress with padded shoulders as she makes glamorous arrival for a TV appearance
          
          
          Former Pussycat Doll 
        











          Sir Paul McCartney, 81, greets star-struck fans with a wave after visiting mural created ahead of his live show in Australia 
          
          
          Rocker was Down Under
        











          Huey Morgan breaks his silence on quitting Fun Lovin' Criminals as he SLAMS ex-bandmates as 'sad and creepy' for blocking him
          
          
          Rock band from the '90s
        











          Ed Sheeran 'onboard flight from Miami to Heathrow' which was met by armed police after 'passenger hurled racist abuse at cabin crew staff'
          
          
          Arrived at London airport
        











          Emily In Paris star Ashley Park shows off her flexibility in skimpy gym wear as she poses for the cover of Women's Health UK magazine
          
          
          Stars in hit Netflix show
        











          Ronnie Wood's ex-wife Jo shows off her 'eclectically-styled' eco-friendly home that showcases her 'obsession' with aliens
          
          
          Rolling Stones star's ex
        











          Stella McCartney releases matching pumpkin-themed Halloween tracksuits and t-shirts for kids that will scare parents... with the outfit costing $255
          
          
          Sold at high-end stores 
        











          Pete Davidson's ex Chase Sui Wonders can't keep her hands off Stranger Things' Joe Keery - including his BACKSIDE- as they take affectionate stroll
          
          
          She has moved on
        











          Queen Maxima of the Netherlands looks stylish in a floral satin skirt during a visit to Rabobank in Nairobi
          
          
          The Dutch Queen was visiting Africa
        











          Tori Spelling is MOVING OUT of $18,000-a-month rental home as workers take her belongings to a storage unit
          
          
          Where will the actress and her five kids go next?
        











          Katharine McPhee, 39, reveals why 'therapy' has been essential in her marriage to David Foster, 73
          
          
          The singer and the music producer have been married for four years
        











          Ariana Grande and Ethan Slater caught on camera: Singer enjoys VERY amorous date night with musical star  following shock divorces
          
          
          Had a public outing
        











          Bachelor Nation's Jason Tartick celebrates his 35th birthday by showing off muscles with shirtless snap following split with Kaitlyn Bristowe
          












          Patrick Mahomes' mom Randi Martin gushes over how 'sweet' Taylor Swift was to her daughter Mia, 12, as she shares snap of them from Chiefs game
          












          Jennifer Lawrence stuns fans with FULL-FRONTAL naked scene in X-Rated comedy on Netflix: 'She's completely fearless!'
          
          
          Stripped off for the role 
        











          Barry Manilow, 80, announces final UK concert dates with a residency at The London Palladium: 'These shows will be my last concerts in Britain'
          












          Lauryn Hill fans fear for her health after singer is forced to postpone tour date to prevent 'serious strain or damage' to her vocal cords
          












          Rupert Grint and his girlfriend Georgia Groome hold hands with their daughter Wednesday, three, during a family outing in north London
          
          
          Harry Potter star and dad
        











          RHONY stars Luann de Lesseps and Leah McSweeney are effortlessly glam as they lead celebrities at Gabrielle's Angel Foundation charity ball
          
          
          In New York City
        











          The Voice: Reba McEntire cries during rehearsal as singers deliver emotional rendition of You Say on NBC show
          
          
          The judge felt the emotion
        











          Nicky Hilton stays cozy in a striped turtleneck and light brown teddy coat as she steps out in New York City
          
          
          Heiress is a style icon
        











          Lala Kent dons a robe while getting glammed up before Vanderpump Rules filming... after celebrating her fifth year of sobriety with the cast
          
          
          Dressed down reality star
        











          Mauricio Umansky spotted holding hands with DWTS dance partner Emma Slater following dinner date - amid separation from Kyle Richards
          
          
          Following a dinner date
        











          The Bachelor veteran Shanae Ankney and boyfriend Nate Ebner announce they are expecting their first child together with baby girl due in April 2024
          












          Sleeping in! Taylor Swift and Travis Kelce treat themselves to a lazy morning with takeout at NFL star's Kansas City mansion
          
          
          After celebrating his win
        











          Reservation Dogs star Devery Jacobs SLAMS Martin Scorsese's Killers of the Flower Moon: 'Being Native, watching this movie was f***ing hellfire'
          
          
          The reviews are out
        











          Hilary Duff watches her ex-boyfriend Joel Madden perform with Good Charlotte in Las Vegas as she poses for a selfie with  his wife Nicole Richie
          












          'I'm living like a monk... but I was a fat baby and I will be fat when I die!': Tyson Fury says his love handles will help him win his next fight
          
          
          Champion boxer spoke 
        











          Cindy Crawford, 57, looks ageless in a striped blouse and stylish jeans... as husband Rande Gerber and son Presley enjoy bonding time
          
          
          Spotted in Malibu
        











          Jana Kramer reveals details of fights she and ex Mike Caussin had including one where he threw wet laundry at her and called her a 'f***ing cripple'
          
          
          Shocking revelations
        











          Paris Hilton SLAMS 'sick' trolling over the size of her baby son Phoenix's head and says: 'My angel is healthy - he just has a large brain'
          
          
          He's nine months old
        











          Paul Newman's 'naughty and bawdy' first love letters to wife Joanne Woodward discovered by daughter in late star's attic: 'I can't print this!'
          
          
          From Connecticut home
        











          Kourtney Kardashian shows off her baby bump in figure-hugging ruched mini dress as she reveals her 'top pregnancy snacks'
          
          
          Expecting her fourth child
        











          Hugh Jackman spends more time with close friend Ryan Reynolds as he recovers from his split with Deborra-Lee Furness after 27 years of marriage
          












          Tyga, 33, goes NUDE in new beach snap and shares shady message to his haters on Instagram: 'My presence is a present... kiss my a**'
          












          John Stamos grins and flashes a peace sign as he poses for a selfie with construction workers while promoting his new bombshell memoir
          












          Jeremy Renner teases new music project called Love and Titanium featuring songs inspired by his near-deadly snowplow accident
          












          Britney Spears 'absolutely hated' her judging role on The X Factor USA as she admits to crippling stage fright & struggled to act 'sceptical'
          












          Bradley Cooper has lunch with Laura Dern in New York City... after the actor's 'Pennsylvania getaway with Gigi Hadid'
          
          
          The actor dressed for fall
        











          Ryan Reynolds celebrates his 47th birthday with an afternoon stroll in New York City with Deadpool 3 director Shawn Levy
          
          
          Stepped out in the city
        











          Jennifer Lopez sells her nine-bedroom Bel Air mansion for $34M...  after taking out $20M mortgage for new Beverly Hills home with Ben Affleck
          
          
          Her real estate portfolio
        











          Southern Charm's Chelsea Meissner is a mom! Star reveals she has welcomed her first child: 'I am one month postpartum'
          
          
          Reality star is a mom
        











          Olivia Rodrigo's friend Tate McRae reveals the one track the singer almost removed from her new album Guts
          
          
          Revealed during a radio interview
        











          Sofia Vergara shows her specs appeal in new eyewear campaign after hot date with handsome surgeon
          
          
          The actress sizzled in the new campaign
        











          Oops, Britney did it AGAIN! Spears is pulled over by California Highway Patrol for a SECOND time in a month after driving over double lines 
          
          
          Stopped by patrol car
        











          Lil Wayne SLAMS new wax figure after snap sparks social media frenzy: 'That sh** ain't me'
          
          
          Wax figure was in a museum in Tennessee
        











          Reese Witherspoon explains why she focuses on 'optimistic stuff that makes girls excited to be women' and doesn't care about being 'in cool kid club'
          
          
          Down to earth star
        











          Paris Hilton has an emotional introduction to her baby son in never-before-seen footage from Paris In Love season two trailer
          
          
          Her proudest moment
        











          FIRST KISS! Taylor Swift plants a smooch on boyfriend Travis Kelce in very loved up snap - after watching him lead the Chiefs to victory
          
          
          Game against Chargers 
        











          Blueface ordered by Vegas court to pay strip club owner $13M stemming from damages in 2022 shooting outside venue that led to its closure
          












          Emma Roberts screams with joy as she receives copy of Britney Spears memoir The Woman In Me: 'Reading this entire book in one sitting'
          












          Britney Spears reveals her mom forced her to 'clean up garbage on the highway like a prisoner' for skipping school to meet boy she lost her virginity to at 14
          












          Uma Thurman looks preppy in a pale blue Prada outfit as she arrives for an appearance at The View to plug the nonprofit Room To Grow
          












          Travis Kelce has nervous 'alarms' going off in his head over new 'level of superstardom' from dating Taylor Swift, reveals his brother Jason
          
          
          Different level of attention
        











          Mariah Carey pays heartfelt tribute to her late father Alfred Roy Carey on his birthday as she posts striking sunflower snap
          
          
          Paid tribute to her dad
        











          Kaia Gerber flaunts her slim figure in a black sports bra and leggings while out in Los Angeles
          
          
          She's the daughter of model Cindy Crawford
        











          Chris Brown says he's leaving California and moving away: 'I think it's time for me to try something different'
          
          
          The singer is set to leave the state
        











          Brian Cox can 'finally say he's been in a Bond production' after swapping Succession for 007- inspired reality show
          
          
          Wanted to be a villain
        











          Joe Jonas holds hands with eldest daughter Willa, three, as they enjoy time together in NYC... after agreeing a custody arrangement with ex Sophie Turner
          












          Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson asks for 'important changes' after life-size French waxwork was unveiled
          
          
          French waxwork came under heavy criticism
        











          Khloe sizzles in a new Barbie pink catsuit from Good American... after being compared to Travis Barker's ex-wife Shanna Moakler
          
          
          Has 311million followers
        











          She's a Barbie girl! Hannah Waddingham's no-nonsense Ted Lasso character Rebecca is transformed into the iconic Mattel doll
          












          INXS REUNITE for first time in six years and reveal plans to replace 'talented and dynamic' late frontman Michael Hutchence 26 years after his death
          












          Shawn Levy teases his highly-anticipated Star Wars movie though insists it's still early in development... but won't confirm nor deny it will feature Adam Driver's Kylo Ren
          












          Taylor Swift's 'BFF act' with Brittany Mahomes - including THAT viral handshake - is all part of her 'masterplan to cosplay' as a NFL WAG
          
          
          Body expert claims 
        











          Pink says she nearly DIED of a drug overdose at age 16 just weeks before signing her first record deal: 'I was off the rails'
          
          
          Incident from 1995 
        











          Alessandra Ambrosio, 42, looks fabulous in a bikini after splitting from model Richard Lee... but whose slacks are hanging from her wall lights?
          
          
          Victoria's Secret model 
        











          John Stamos' ex Teri Copley DENIES cheating on him with Tony Danza as they were already SPLIT when he walked in them
          
          
          Caught in bed together
        











          Teddi Mellencamp shares a disappointing update on her skin cancer treatment after trying out immunotherapy
          
          
          Real Housewives star 
        











          Sting looks more in love than ever with glam wife Trudie Styler as they pose at Posso entrare? An ode to Naples premiere during Rome Film Festival
          
          
          Been married since 1992 
        





















Russian mother, 26, with 22 children asks them to reel of their dates of birth in incredible video that shows how she welcomed 20 babies in the space of a year thanks to surrogacy










       
       Russian mother Kristina Ozturk, 26, who lives in Georgia, has welcomed 21 of her children via surrogate , with 20 born in just over a year. A recent clip shared to Instagram shows how all but two of the clan were born in 2020 , with Kristina's eldest, Victoria, born in 2014 from a previous marriage and the latest addition to their family, Olivia, born in January 2021. Kristina pictured with her son Ali, left, and right, with 21 of her children.
     







831







2 comments
    











          NHL reverses course and LIFTS the ban on Pride Tape following player pushback and protest in a win for the LGBTQ+ community in sports
      









        
        The NHL is set to reverse course and lift a ban that it instituted just two weeks ago that would prohibit players from using stick tape that is rainbow-colored.
    







3 comments
    






55 shares
    
NHL reverses course and LIFTS the ban on Pride Tape











          Washington state senator is arrested in Hong Kong for carrying a GUN while on a five-week vacation with his wife: Faces 14 years in jail under brutal Chinese regime but claims it was just an 'honest mistake'
      









        
        Reaching into his hand luggage for a 'piece of gum' he discovered the firearm in there as well which had also escaped the attention of security staff when he set off from Portland in Oregon.
    







111 shares
    
Washington state Sen Jeff Wilson seized in Hong Kong with illegal gun











            Make-up influencer Juliana Rocha dies aged just 25 after mysteriously vanishing from social media two months ago
        










                
                Popular make-up influencer Juliana Rocha has died aged just 25 after mysteriously vanishing from social media two months ago. Rocha's family announced her death on Monday to her 186,000 fans on Instagram while her funeral was held yesterday for her relatives and friends.
            








1 comment
    






9 shares
    
Make-up influencer Juliana Rocha dies aged just 25









 
 
Showbiz extra










          Lady Tatiana Mountbatten, daughter of the King's cousin, welcomes a baby girl - and reveals the newborn's sweet name
          
          
          Shared announcement
        











          Jess Glynne and Alex Scott pictured together for the first time since their 'secret relationship' came to light
          
          
          Spotted in London 
        











          Chloe Ferry showcases her jaw-dropping figure in TINY white bikini as she soaks up the sun during Ibiza trip
          
          
          British reality star
        











          Porn star Sky Bri reveals mystery Man United soccer player has been DMing her - and says he's one of 'pretty big players' to message her
          
          
          She has 223K followers
        











          Newly-single Molly Smith puts on a VERY busty display as she wows in tight vinyl black mini dress following her split from Callum Jones
          
          
          Slipped into an LBD
        











          Alex Scott cuts a casual figure as she leaves radio studios - after wishing 'secret girlfriend' Jess Glynne a happy birthday in sweet post
          
          
          Alex dressed down
        











          Seafolly announces stunning model Steph Claire Smith is the new face of the swimwear brand - after PR disaster with non-binary influencer
          
          
          Australian influencer 
        











          Ferne McCann shows off her gorgeous postpartum figure in a black and white bikini as she enjoys vacation in the Maldives with fiancé Lorri Haines
          












          Love Island's Molly Smith shows off her phenomenal bikini-clad figure in sizzling throwback snaps after splitting from Callum Jones
          












          Jess Glynne wows in sizzling lingerie-clad snaps as she announces new tour... in wake of 'secret romance' with Alex Scott coming to light
          












          Princess Diana's warzone charity is snubbed in next series of The Crown as Netflix use logo of another conflict group
          












          Rhian Sugden gets into the spooky spirit as she sizzles in a racy red lace corset and cheeky devil horns
          
          
          The former glamor model posed
        
























            King Charles promotes 'hunky' aide Lt Col Johnny Thompson to 'super equerry' - making him the monarch's right-hand man
        










                
                Lt Col Johnny Thompson, who is famed for appearing alongside the royals in a kilt, was 'due to leave the Army within 18 months', ending his role as an equerry, an insider has claimed. But he will soon be tasked with organising Charles' private affairs after being promoted from equerry to 'super equerry'. Thompson, 40, received his promotion after he reportedly charmed the King and Queen Camilla. Thompson, who lives in Surrey, first won over fans after he was spotted at Queen Elizabeth II's funeral, prompting royal watchers to brand him a 'hunk'. Since then, he had made further appearances, including attending the King's coronation.
            







66







860 comments
    






1 video
    











          Would you like saliva with that? Moment obnoxious McDonald's customer trashes drive-thru after spitting at 'rude' server
      









        
        Shocking footage shows two customers aggressively trash the McDonald's drive through after spitting at the so-called 'rude' employee, over a dispute regarding a refund. 
    







1 comment
    






2 videos
    






68 shares
    
McDonald's customer trashes drive through after spitting at server











          The fight for Taco Tuesday trademark is over: Taco Bell says local New Jersey restaurant that held trademark for 41 years relinquishes its registration - after Wyoming-based chain gave up the rights in 49 states
      









        
        The win - announced by the chain on a Tuesday, of course - comes after New Jersey-based Gregory's Restaurant and Bar relinquished its registration of the trademark catchphrase.
    







75 comments
    






125 shares
    
Taco Bell wins suit to free Taco Tuesday trademark









Women who have remained pen pals since elementary school finally meet in person - 40 years later










       
       Two women who were set up as pen pals for a fifth grade school project at age 10 have finally met in person, more than 40 years later.  Haley Briggs, from Douglassville, Pennsylvania and Krystel Alston, from Ontario, California, continued to write to each other throughout their lives. After finally agreeing to meet to celebrate their 50th birthdays in 2020, the happy occasion was delayed due to the pandemic lockdowns.
     








2 comments
    






1.2k shares
    
Pen pals for 40 years finally meet in person









 
 
TOP US SPORTS STORIES










          Fresh photos of Travis Kelce's new $6m Kansas City mansion show off the luxury property
          
          
          Amid romance with Taylor Swift
        











          Charles Barkley presses Adam Silver on NBA's recent 'disturbing' domestic violence incidents
          
          
          Fumbling commissioner gives non-answer
        











          REVEALED: NFL star wide receiver Chris Olave told police officer 'I play for the Saints, man' during arrest
          
          
          Reportedly was driving 70mph in a 35mph zone 
        











          NFL host Terry Bradshaw believes Travis Kelce's pop star girlfriend Taylor Swift LIP SYNCS
          
          
          During her three-hour Eras Tour shows: 
        











          Lil Wayne joins Major League Pickleball franchise Texas Ranchers' ownership group
          
          
          Becoming the latest A-lister to invest in the sport 
        











          REVEALED: Touching details behind Denver Nuggets' unique championship ring
          
          
          16 carats of diamonds, 89 rubies and a retractable compartment
        











          Detroit Lions wide receiver Marvin Jones Jr announces he is stepping away from the team 'to take care of personal family matters'
          
          
          Did not play Sunday
        











          Chiefs wide receiver Justyn Ross is charged with domestic battery and criminal damage
          
          
          Alleged victim 'claims she was dragged through the house' 
        











          NHL reverses course and LIFTS the ban on Pride Tape following player pushback and protest
          
          
          Win for the LGBTQ+ community in sports 
        











          New York Jets hike season ticket prices by 'an average of TEN PERCENT' after Aaron Rodgers' arrival drove up demand
          
          
          Despite QB's injury 
        











          NBA is being 'INVESTIGATED by US Department of Justice over allegations that league worked to thwart Ice Cube's Big3 basketball league'
          

























































Argos

Electronic deals
Save on Laptops, TVs & more from Argos


TUI

Holiday Discount
Deals available for 2022/2023 holidays


JD Sports

Deals on everything
Deals on sportswear, footwear & sports equipment


adidas

Save with adidas
Save money on outlet and full-price orders


River Island

Save now
Get discounts and deals on womens fashion and accessories


AO.com

AO.com deals
Find great deals on electricals














 
 
Back to top






Home




Showbiz




Femail




Royals




Health




Science




Sports




Politics




U.K.




Money




Video




Travel




Shop






Sitemap
Archive
Video Archive
Authors
Topics Index
Mobile Apps
Screensaver
RSS
Text-based site
Reader Prints
Our Papers
Top of page

Daily Mail
Mail on	Sunday
This is Money

Metro
Jobsite
Mail Travel
Zoopla.co.uk
Prime Location


Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
dmg media
Contact us
How to complain
Leadership Team
Advertise with us
Contributors
Work with Us
Terms
Do not sell or share my personal information
CA Privacy Notice
About MailOnline
Privacy policy & cookies



Advertisement
Advertisement


 











 
 











