



Biden questioned in classified documents probe | SunOnline International






















































Local
World
Sports
Entertainment
Business
Travel
Maldive Islands





























Local
World
Sports
Entertainment
Business
Lifestyle
Travel
Maldive Islands











date_range
Wednesday 25 Oct 2023 














Dhivehi Edition +






































LOCAL EDITION



Local
World
Sports
Entertainment
Business
Lifestyle
Travel
Maldive Islands

















close














Advertisement















Biden questioned in classified documents probe






0 

Oct 11, 2023 09:29 






















 US President Joe Biden has been questioned as part of an investigation into the handling of classified documents found at his home and former private office, the White House said. (Photo/Reuters Archive) 






US President Joe Biden has been questioned as part of an investigation into the handling of classified documents found at his home and former private office, the White House said.






The 80-year-old Democrat voluntarily gave the interview on Sunday and Monday, at a time when the president was also dealing with ongoing tension between Israel and Hamas.






The US attorney general appointed a special counsel in January to look into the handling of the secret files, which dated from Biden's time as vice president under president Barack Obama and immediately afterwards.






"The president has been interviewed as part of the investigation being led by Special Counsel Robert Hur," White House Counsel’s Office spokesman Ian Sams said in a statement.






"The voluntary interview was conducted at the White House over two days, Sunday and Monday, and concluded Monday."






Sams added: "As we have said from the beginning, the president and the White House are cooperating with this investigation."






He referred further questions to the Justice Department.



US media said the fact that Biden himself had been interviewed showed that the investigation was likely nearing its end. Special Counsel Hur's team had previously carried out extensive interviews among Biden's staff, ABC news said.






The probe involves documents found in the possession of Biden, who was vice president under Obama when the papers were removed from the White House.






Records were first unearthed in a private think tank office, where Biden used to work in Washington after his time as vice president, in November 2022.






'Nothing there'






More documents were found in the president's Wilmington, Delaware garage –– next to his Corvette sports car –– on December 20. Another set of files was then discovered in his home library on January 12.






Back in January, Biden dismissed the probe, saying there was "nothing there."






But mushrooming scandals over the handling of secret files have become an unexpectedly big issue in the 2024 US presidential elections.






Former president Donald Trump, Biden's likely Republican opponent next year, separately faces trial over the alleged mishandling of classified documents after leaving office.



The special counsel in that case, Jack Smith, says Trump allegedly took classified documents to his Mar-A-Lago estate in Florida and refused to return them.






Trump, 77, pleaded not guilty in June to charges of unlawfully retaining national defense information, conspiracy to obstruct justice and making false statements.






The prosecutor in that case has asked for a 2024 trial, one of a number that Trump faces on various charges which include trying to overturn the results of the 2020 election, which he lost to Biden.






And Trump's vice president, Mike Pence, revealed in January that he too had uncovered documents marked as classified at his home.






Republicans have been trying to draw parallels between the Trump and Biden document cases, crying foul over what they say is special treatment meted out to the current president.
___
Source: TRT







































Advertisement




Comment







Name : 


Send Comment














Advertisement



Related Articles




 Synagogue head 'stabbed' to death in Detroit






 US activates deployment of defence systems in Mideast






 Protesters in US capital seek end to Israeli onslaught






 Biden seeks $106B for Ukraine, Israel, border






 US troops attacked in Syria, Iraq over Israel support






 Global protests berate Biden for Israel support despite






Next Article




 Islamophobes inflame social media as bombs hit Gaza






Related Tags

World News
United States
Joe Biden


























MEDIA









Ma. Eureka 
Vaidheri Hingun, 
Malé, Maldives 
20047


Tel : 3312747 
Fax : 3312747







Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms and conditions
About Sun












Like us
sunmv







Follow Us
sunbrk























