








 

   




























































Biden condemns attacks against Israel: ‘This is terrorism’ | WNCT





































































































Skip to content


WNCT





Greenville

53°















					WATCH NOW				



					Click here to watch the latest …				











 Sign Up


Greenville

53°











					WATCH NOW				






Sponsored By

  



Toggle Menu


Open Navigation





Close Navigation










Search




Please enter a search term.



Primary Menu

News



Vote Now on 9
Local
North Carolina
Coronavirus
Crime Tracker
Your Local Election Headquarters
National
Russia and Ukraine Conflict
Southeast Region
Politics from The Hill
Washington-DC
BestReviews
BestReviews Daily Deals
Entertainment
Business
Offbeat and Unique
Animals
Press Releases
Traffic
MrBeast
Border Report Tour
World
Politics
Military
Space
Video
Have You Seen This?
Pass or Fail
Automotive News
WNCT mobile apps


Weather



Interactive Radar
7 Day Forecast
Current Conditions
Alerts
Hurricane Center
Boating Forecast
Closings Login
Radar & Satellite
Check the conditions with our Live Eye 9 cameras
Precision Cast
Jerry’s Weather School/Weather Kids
Max’s Mad Laboratory
Historic North Carolina Hurricanes
Download WNCT’s weather app


Sports



ECU Pirates
Touchdown Friday
Down East Wood Ducks
MLB
Carolina Panthers
NFL
NASCAR and Motorsports
Carolina Hurricanes
NHL
Charlotte Hornets
NBA
ACC Football
ACC Basketball
College Football
College Basketball
High School
Golf


Features



WNCT Podcast Network
9 On The Positive Side
Online Originals
Cold Case Files
Heating Up With Holly
Best of Pets
Hispanic Heritage Month
Let’s Go Out!
STEM Education
Black History Month
Chamber News
Veterans Voices
Contests
Destination Vacation


On Your Side



WNCT’s Remarkable Women for 2023: Liz Hartman wins prestigious honor
Classroom Conversations
Living Local
School Watch
People and Places
Consumer Watch
WNCT’s Community Calendar
Health Watch
Hunger Action Month
Aces for Autism
Buy Local
Money Matters
Southern Business Spotlights


Watch Now



WNCT Now


Hello ENC!



Meet the Hello ENC! Team
WNCT’s ‘Be Our Guest’
Art-C
C-Sharp
Coffee Break
Couple of Nerds
Fashion Forward With C
Eventful
Fit Minute
Food On The Go
Get After It
Green Thumb
On Carolina Soil with Emily
On the Record with Chris
Pay It Forward
Singing with C
Trailblazing


Station Info



Email newsletter signup
Regional News Partners
Meet the Team
Listen to 9OYS on 107.9 FM, 96.3 FM & 103.7 FM
Alexa
Contact us
TV Schedule
Advertise with us
About BestReviews


Jobs



Find a Job
Post a Job
Work for us
Job Alert




Search




Please enter a search term.











    
















Politics from The Hill


				Biden condemns attacks against Israel: ‘This is terrorism’			


		by: Alex Gangitano, Brett Samuels, The Hill 

			Posted: Oct 10, 2023 / 03:00 PM EDT 

			Updated: Oct 10, 2023 / 04:26 PM EDT 











		by: Alex Gangitano, Brett Samuels, The Hill 

			Posted: Oct 10, 2023 / 03:00 PM EDT 

			Updated: Oct 10, 2023 / 04:26 PM EDT 



SHARE
















 













President Biden on Tuesday harshly condemned the “abhorrent” terrorist attacks over the weekend by Hamas as the death toll in the region climbed, vowing that the U.S. would fully support the Israeli people.
The president also confirmed that Americans are among those being held hostage, with officials saying as many as 20 Americans are unaccounted for.
Both Biden and his top national security adviser backed Israel’s right to respond with force, as Israeli forces prepared to go on the offensive, and signaled an upcoming push for Congress to provide additional support.
“In this moment we must be crystal clear: We stand with Israel,” Biden said in remarks from the State Dining Room. “And we will make sure Israel has what it needs to take care of its citizens, defend itself and respond to this attack. There’s no justification for terrorism. There’s no excuse.” 
Biden recounted the violent images coming out of Israel in recent days, referencing parents being killed as they tried to protect their children; young people being massacred while attending a music festival, babies being killed, women being raped, and grandparents being ripped from wheelchairs.
“It’s abhorrent,” Biden said. “The brutality of Hamas … brings to mind the worst rampages of ISIS. This is terrorism. But sadly, for the Jewish people, it’s not new.”


  

In addition to the Israeli casualties, hundreds of Palestinians have been killed in Gaza amid relentless bombings by Israel, which vowed retaliation for the unprecedented attack. More than a dozen American citizens have been killed, according to the White House.
Biden has spoken three separate times with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu since Saturday, including a call Tuesday. Biden has met with his national security team each day since the crisis began Saturday, and the U.S. and European allies put out a statement Monday affirming support for Israel. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is set to travel to Israel this week.
The Biden administration has also repositioned military assets in the region to assist Israel and started sending munitions and interceptors to the Israelis to ensure their Iron Dome defense system has enough supplies. The administration is not currently planning to put U.S. forces on the ground, officials said Tuesday.
Biden confirmed Tuesday that American citizens are among those being held hostage by Hamas and said that the number of Americans killed in the terrorist attacks had risen to 14. 


  

National security adviser Jake Sullivan said that the U.S. doesn’t know the exact number of Americans being held hostage but that 20 or more Americans are currently unaccounted for in Israel. U.S. officials had previously warned that Americans were likely among those being held by Hamas.
Biden administration officials have consistently defended Israel’s response to the attacks by Hamas, including Tuesday.
The president in his remarks said Israel has a “duty to respond to these vicious attacks.” 
Sullivan also dismissed the suggestion that Israel’s response should be categorized as “retaliation” and instead was defending itself.


  

“This is about providing support to Israel as it seeks to defend its territory and deal with an ongoing imminent threat from Hamas terrorists who, as I said before, are acting a heck of a lot like ISIS terrorists in their barbarity and cruelty,” Sullivan said.
“I’m not here to draw red lines, or issue warnings, or give lectures to anybody,” he added in response to a question about whether Biden suggested that Netanyahu exercise any restraint.
The White House has stressed the personal nature of the attacks on Israel as well. National Security Council spokesperson John Kirby got choked up Monday discussing the images on the ground in a CNN interview, and the White House lit up in blue and white for the Israeli flag Monday evening, following a call from Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) to do so.
Biden on Tuesday said he will ask Congress when it returns from recess “to take urgent action to fund the national security requirements of our critical partners.”


  

“This is not about party or politics. This is about the security of our world, security of the United States of America,” he said.
Biden is expected to package funding for Israel with additional funding for Ukraine’s war effort, which the White House has struggled to pass with an increasing number of House Republicans not supporting it.
Administration officials have also said they have existing appropriations and authority to support Israel without additional congressional action if needed.
Potentially complicating matters is that the House is without a Speaker after Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) was ousted from the role last week in a move led by a small number of Republicans. A minority of Republicans have expressed opposition to providing more aid to Ukraine, but support for Israel has faced no such resistance in the GOP-controlled House. 


  

Updated at 4:15 p.m. ET




Copyright 2023 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.



 






✕


Read next >
				


















Read next >
					



Next


✕



✕


Read next >
				



















Next story in 



					Cancel
				





Read next >
				







Next story in 



					Cancel
				








		
		Top Stories
					








			
			UPDATE: Fall colors still stunning in NC mountains
							


















			
			RSV shots for NC babies in low supply, why not to …
							























			
			NC restaurants featured on Food Network as of 2023
							


















			
			Hurricane Otis weakens over southern Mexico after …
							


















			
			What is ‘super fog’?
							




















				Top Stories							




  





		
		More Stories
					








			
			Boeing loses $1.6 billion on fewer deliveries of …
							


















			
			Israel accuses UN chief of justifying terrorism for …
							


















			
			Teen recovers after heart attack in W-S on basketball …
							























			
			UPDATE: Fall colors still stunning in NC mountains
							


















			
			RSV shots for NC babies in low supply, why not to …
							























			
			NC restaurants featured on Food Network as of 2023
							


















			
			Former British police officer jailed for abusing …
							


















			
			Loyalty above all: Removal of top Chinese officials …
							















				More Stories							




  

LKQD Outstream





		
		WNCT Video
		
			











			
			
			Greenville police say four people shot, one dead
					

10 hours ago 



















			
			
			Eastern North Carolina schools raise awareness about …
					

11 hours ago 



















			
			
			WNCT.com’s Best of Pets: Zara
					

15 hours ago 



















			
			
			Jacksonville hosts open house for transportation …
					

15 hours ago 



















			
			
			Jacksonville nonprofits and organizations collaborate …
					

15 hours ago 



















			
			
			Community comes together for 10th annual Aces for …
					

16 hours ago 



















			
			
			A wintry take on the circus has come to Greenville
					

16 hours ago 



















			
			
			Dog found in dumpster gets adopted in Lenoir County
					

16 hours ago 



















			
			
			Local solar energy company offers new buy-back program
					

16 hours ago 



















			
			
			Substance abuse discussion to be held Tuesday in …
					

16 hours ago 



















			
			
			Giant spider balloon installation built in Illinois
					

24 hours ago 



















			
			
			Over 400 animals rescued in Spain in traffic ring …
					

1 day ago 

















				More Videos							






  






		
		More from WNCT
					








			
			Area high school volleyball teams move to third round …
							























			
			Ex-Marine pleads guilty in infrastructure attack …
							























			
			New NC district maps could be approved Wednesday
							























			
			Bus driver ID’d, charges pending in I-85 crash
							























			
			Energetic and effective, Moon named LCPS Principal …
							


















			
			Republicans nominate Mike Johnson for House speaker …
							


















			
			‘Shaft’ actor Richard Roundtree dies at 81
							























			
			Johansson makes 32 saves, Point has goal, assist, …
							















				More from WNCT							




  








  


 
Close



Thanks for signing up!
Watch for us in your inbox.



Subscribe Now

						WNCT Daily News					
















SIGN UP NOW








 


		
		BestReviews.com - Top picks to make everyone happy
					








			
			Looking for a last-minute Halloween costume? These …
							


Holiday / 2 days ago 

















			
			The holidays are the perfect time for a wearable …
							


Holiday / 4 days ago 

















			
			Last-minute Halloween costumes you can buy on Amazon …
							


Holiday / 5 days ago 

















			
			What you need in your toolbox to get through the …
							


Holiday / 5 days ago 

















			
			28 Advent calendars you should buy right now (warning: …
							


Holiday / 7 days ago 

















			
			Try one of these 9 Instant Pot accessories for an …
							


Holiday / 1 week ago 














				View All BestReviews Picks							









  



 

		
		Trending Stories
		
			







			
			Greenville police say four people shot, one dead
							





















			
			Wawa comes to NC; new store set to open in Greenville
							
















			
			7 Day Forecast
							
















			
			Facebook hackers stealing accounts in ENC
							





















			
			Greenville police: One shot at Tie Breakers
							





















			
			Dog found in dumpster gets adopted in Lenoir County
							





















			
			14-year-old faces attempted murder charges following …
							
















			
			NC restaurants featured on Food Network as of 2023
							
















			
			GSO nurse who stole 600 vials of strong opioid arrested: …
							





















			
			Veterans Voices
							
















			
			Craven County students in need receive new, free …
							





















			
			Area high school volleyball teams move to third round …
							





















			
			Candy shop in Thomasville making treats with antique …
							





















			
			Dept. of Adult Corrections vacancy rates down across …
							
















			
			Tropics: Tammy approaching Bermuda
							


















WNCT-TV


  





  



  



















News
Weather
Sports
Video
On Your Side
People and Places
9 On The Positive Side
Jerry’s Weather School/Weather Kids
WNCT Podcast Network


Closed Captioning
WNCT: FCC Public File
EEO Report
Children’s TV Report





Get News App




Get the iOS app





Get the Android app from Google Play





Get Weather App




Get the iOS Weather app





Get the Android Weather app from Google Play






Stay Connected

























Haystack




































							Privacy Policy						



							Terms Of Use						



							Covers						



							FCC Applications						



							Public File Assistance Contact						


 


							The Hill						



							NewsNation						



							BestReviews						



							Content Licensing						



							Nexstar Digital						



							Journalistic Integrity						


 Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information








				© 1998 - 2023 Nexstar Media Inc. | All Rights Reserved.			
















					✕
				
  

























