























Ex-NFL Player Missing, Mother’s Body Discovered During Search









































 
 




 













Accessibility




Login for Ad-Free











About
Jobs
Terms
Privacy
 




Search for:

















Sports




 


Video Shows Moment Jon Jones Tore His Pec, Forcing Him Out Of UFC 295 Fight Vs Stipe Miocic







 


LeBron James Trolled After Having Shot Swatted By Christian Braun







 


Nuggets Player Reps Buffs With Travis Hunter, Shedeur Sanders Courtside







 


Broncos Lose Key Starter To Four-Game Suspension; Reduced To 2 Games On Appeal





Culture




 


NFL Quarterback Rankings Week 8: The King Is Back On Top







 


Daniel Radcliffe Is Making A Doc About His Stunt Double Who Became Paralyzed While Working On ‘Harry Potter’







 


50 Hilarious New Memes That Have Taken Over The Internet Today







 


WATCH: Travis Kelce’s Perfect Reaction To Being Called Taylor Swift’s ‘Boyfriend’





Gear




 


I Went To Yosemite With Grunt Style And Now I’m Prouder Than Ever To Be An American







 


Attention, Outdoorsmen: Here Are Our Top Picks For Camping Gear On Sale This Week At Huckberry







 


Zodiac’s New Super Sea Wolf Watch Will Be The Pineapple Of Your Eye. Get Yours Today!







 


Cozy, Classy, Cable Knit: Flint And Tinder Has Your New Favorite Fall Sweater Available At Huckberry





Shop
Subscribe
Writers

Cass Anderson
Clay Sauertieg
Connor Toole
Douglas Charles
Dov Kleiman
Eric Italiano
Garrett Carr
Grayson Weir
Jacob Elsey
Jorge Alonso
Tom Conroy


 



Subscribe For Ad-Free
Learn More about Ad-Free

About
Jobs
Terms
Privacy
 

Get brobible Everywhere.
















Sports
Former NFL Player Missing, Mother’s Body Discovered During Search 
#NFL


Follow Us


by Dov KleimanLast Updated Sep 19, 2023 11:43 am 




Nick Grace/Getty Images
Update:
Sergio Brown has emerged with rant on Instagram, calling the reports: “Fake news.”, and saying he thought his was mom, who passed, is on vacation.


“Fake news. It has to be the FBI, they came into my house…unwarranted. They kidnapped me twice from home, the Maywood Police Department. It had to be the FBI or the Maywood Police.”
“I thought my momma was on vacation,”, Brown added, according to WFLD.
Original Story:
Former NFL safety Sergio Brown, who had stints with the New England Patriots, Indianapolis Colts, Jacksonville Jaguars, and Buffalo Bills, has been reported missing since at least Friday.
Authorities and concerned family members are currently searching for any leads regarding his whereabouts, according to CBSNews.
Tragically, amidst the search for Sergio Brown, the body of his mother, Myrtle Brown, was discovered in Addison Creek near her home in Maywood on September 16.
Brown played high school football at Proviso East and later played college football at Notre Dame.
Sergio Brown went on to sign with Patriots after going undrafted in the NFL draft in 2010. Brown retired in 2016
Relatives have reported that they have been unsuccessful in their attempts to establish contact with him since his disappearance. Worried for his safety, family members reached out to both the Maywood and Melrose Park police departments to seek assistance in locating him.
As of now, the police are actively investigating the circumstances surrounding Sergio Brown’s disappearance, and no further information has been disclosed regarding the case.
Authorities are urging anyone with information about Sergio Brown’s whereabouts to come forward and call the Maywood Police Department’s anonymous tip line at (708) 450-1787.









Dov Kleiman



					BroBible sports writer and associate editor. Covering the NFL for almost 10 years.				


Tags Buffalo BillsIndianapolis ColtsJacksonville JaguarsMissing PersonNew England PatriotsNFLPoliceSergio Brown 







Latest Posts
NFL Quarterback Rankings Week 8: The King Is Back On Top
Video Shows Moment Jon Jones Tore His Pec, Forcing Him Out Of UFC 295 Fight Vs Stipe Miocic
Daniel Radcliffe Is Making A Doc About His Stunt Double Who Became Paralyzed While Working On ‘Harry Potter’
50 Hilarious New Memes That Have Taken Over The Internet Today
 















Newsletter
About BroBible
Advertise
Staff
Events & Concerts
Write for BroBible
Terms
Privacy
Tip Off
 

			Copyright © 2008-2023 HORSENECK MEDIA, LLC. All rights reserved.
		



 






