'Queen Karma': GOPer who mocked Biden's fall on plane falls on plane - Raw StorySubscriptions
        
    SUBSCRIBE FOR $1
  About usJobsUS NEWSInvestigationsOpinionvideoHELPget the newsletter
    SUBSCRIBE FOR $1
  Home
        Shop to Support Independent Journalism
      TrumpU.S. NewsWorldScienceVideoInvestigationsEthics Policy
               
      
        'Queen Karma': GOPer who mocked Biden's fall on plane falls on plane
    Sky PalmaOctober 11, 2023 3:39PM ET
        (Photo by James Devaney/GC Images)
    President Joe Biden has taken a tumble numerous times – including falling while climbing the ramp to Air Force One and while navigating the stage at a military awards ceremony. As expected, his critics were always on hand to poke fun at the President and suggest his tumbles are due to his advancing age. Now, one of those who mocked Biden's unsure footedness took a tumble himself, Newsweek reported.Video captured Sen. Tommy Tuberville (R-AL) slipping down a row of steps while exiting an airplane Wednesday. The footage immediately began to circulate Twitter, with people mocking him with names like, "Tommy Tumbleville."POLL: Should Trump be allowed to run for office?"Queen Karma paid Tommy Tuberville a visit. Stay as long as you like, ma'am. 🤣," Democratic influencer Brooklyn Dad posted on X.In July, Tuberville told reporters that he expects Biden to fall every time he appears in public."You watch Joe Biden over in Europe. I mean, I'm afraid he's going to fall down every time I turn on television," Tuberville said at the time. X users were quick to point out what they say is Tuberville's hypocrisy. READ MORE: Trump's legal team demands 'missing' Jan 6 documents that they aren't sure even exist"Old people fall all the time," one person wrote. "Here's 60 year old Tommy Tuberville falling down some stairs in 2014 before losing to UVA in... wait for it...the Military Bowl.""I will not apologize for enjoying watching Tommy Tuberville exit a plane on his a--, Seems quite fitting after the all the trouble he causes," wrote another.Watch the video below or at this link. —  (@)
        SmartNews
  For customer support contact
  support@rawstory.com. Report typos and corrections to
  corrections@rawstory.com.
Stories Chosen For YouREAD COMMENTS - JOIN THE DISCUSSION
        Should Trump be allowed to run for office?
    
        Staff Bio: M.L.Nestel
    John ByrneOctober 25, 2023
	M.L. Nestel is an award-winning writer and editor whose work has frequently been published in New York Magazine, Los Angeles Magazine, and The Guardian, among other titles. He also produces and writes for TV shows and podcasts. Prior to that, he served on the Newsweek masthead as a Senior Writer, wrote as a Correspondent at ABC News, and held the titles of West Coast Bureau Chief and Senior Writer at The Daily Beast. Priors also include working as Senior National Correspondent at The Daily Mail, and Investigative Reporter at all three NYC tabloids The New York Post,The New York Daily News, and Newsday. He traveled around the country as a National Correspondent at The Daily. M.L. published hundreds of stories about underground music and cinema -- most notably as a Critic for Box Office Magazine and the New York Editor at Soma Magazine. He also headed development at Fountainhead Films. M.L. splits his time between Los Angeles and New York.Read M.L.Nestel's stories.
        Staff Bio: Kathleen Culliton
    John ByrneOctober 25, 2023
	Kathleen Culliton is Raw Story's assistant managing editor. She's been covering local and national news for more than a decade for outlets that include the New York Post, Al Jazeera, DNAinfo New York, Bustle, the New York Daily News, WNYC, NY1, City Limits and the New York City Patch. Kathleen is a proud alumna of the CUNY Graduate School of Journalism. Here's a shocker; she is from New York City. Read Kathleen Culliton's stories.
        'Shut up!': GOPers boo reporter who asks about 2020 election subversion efforts
    David McAfeeOctober 25, 2023A reporter for ABC who was simply asking about the goings on of the Congress was booed by the entire GOP conference Tuesday.House Republicans chose a new speaker-designate, Mike Johnson, in an effort to end the ongoing chaos in the House. A reporter attempted to ask about his record on election denial.CONTINUE READINGShow less Sarah K. BurrisMatt Laslo
        Tom Emmer accused of holding GOP caucus hostage in speaker vote
    Mark Alesia, Investigative Reporter
        GOP congressman — a retired Navy SEAL — uses foreign warship photo in salute to U.S. Navy
    David Badash, The New Civil Rights Movement
        Trump serves up massively false claim about his 91 criminal charges
      
    Copyright © 2023 Raw Story Media, Inc. PO Box 21050, Washington, D.C. 20009 |
    Masthead  |
    Privacy Policy  |
    Manage Preferences | Debug Logs
    For corrections contact
    corrections@rawstory.com, for support contact
    support@rawstory.com.
  {{ post.roar_specific_data.api_data.analytics }}