




You Need This Mailchimp Signup Form WordPress Plugin Now














































 











Formidable Forms








Formidable Forms
Features
Templates
Pricing
Resources

Docs & Support

Blog
Community 


Solutions

Web Applications
Calculators
Surveys
Directories
Payments
Contact forms

Login
Get Formidable Forms

Formidable Team / July 28, 2022 You Need This Mailchimp Signup Form WordPress Plugin Now

Searching for a Mailchimp signup form WordPress plugin that does more? Then this is the plugin you need for your contact forms for Mailchimp.



So, you’ve got your Mailchimp account and your WordPress site. You’re ready to start building your Mailchimp list.
You go into Mailchimp’s form builder. The user interface is slightly confusing, but you can figure it out. You notice some things are missing, though.
How are you supposed to tag users automatically? You can’t.


Get Better Forms FREE!

 

Can you add a user to two separate groups? Not without editing code! 
Are you even able to have a checkbox? Not very easily!
But these are the limitations of Mailchimp’s forms. You’ve decided you must live with them, right?
Wrong! There is an easy way to get around these limitations. You just have to keep reading to find out how!



Subscribe on YouTube



Wait, is there a Mailchimp plugin for WordPress?
You can create and display your forms on your website with Mailchimp’s WordPress plugin. The plugin works well for many users, but it hasn't been updated in quite a while. That means it may not be compatible with the latest version of WordPress or your WordPress theme.
For basic purposes, capturing email addresses and starting a newsletter this way is fine.
But what if you’re looking to do a little more with your forms and Mailchimp audience? This is where you start to run into problems.


Want to add custom fields to your forms? 
Doing this with Mailchimp isn’t simple or even possible in some cases.
And form customization is limited. You can change some colors and bold some text, but that’s about the extent of it.
Doing all this and more is easy, though. You just need a form-building plugin.
? Want to add a Mailchimp popup to your website? How to Add a Mailchimp Popup to WordPress
Why you need a Mailchimp subscribe form WordPress plugin
You may have thought the Mailchimp contact form builder was fine. And it is for some people.
But, it has some areas for improvement. That’s where form plugins (like Formidable Forms or WPForms) come in.
For example, the Mailchimp popup could be improved.
But, like a form-building Ironman, plugins improve the process to give users superhero-like abilities with their subscription forms.


For example, remember when we mentioned adding a user to two different groups on signup? This takes extra code on your part. There’s no simple way.
With Formidable Forms, you simply change some settings inside the form. No coding is needed.
And we haven’t even talked about the customization process with Mailchimp. 
Limited options, basic customization, and an unattractive interface.
Form builders are the opposite. Complete customization with a simple interface to use. Add form fields, customize the design, and create unlimited forms for your website.
It’s as if Mailchimp is your school principal telling you to play inside a set of rules.
With Formidable Forms, you’re the principal, and you set the rules.
Try the Best Mailchimp Plugin now!
The best Mailchimp list subscribe form WordPress plugin?
Making forms look nice is only part of the equation. How you organize your Mailchimp audience is another part. 
If Formidable Forms is peanut butter, Mailchimp is the jelly. And they go together perfectly. ?


Want to tag users based on the post or page they’re on when they sign up? Using Formidable Forms, you can do this straight from your form. 
Using only Mailchimp, you'd have to go to each subscriber and add tags to them. And that's is neither efficient nor a good use of time.
Segmenting your audience helps to create more active email lists.
And that’s not even all the features. Here are a few more you may like:

Drag and Drop Form Builder. Creating forms is simple as 1, 2, 3.
White Label Form Builder. Don’t want 3rd party branding? Then remove it easily!
Visual Form Styler. Customize your forms without the need for code.
Easy Mailchimp Integration. Connect and start building forms fast as lightning.

But, you may wonder how easy it is to add a form to your website with Formidable Forms.
How do I add a Mailchimp signup form to my WordPress site with Formidable
Easy. There are only three steps:

Integrate Mailchimp with Formidable Forms
Create a form in Formidable
Set Mailchimp settings inside the form editor

Mailchimp integration comes with Formidable's Plus plan and higher. So click below to purchase your license and get started!
Try the Best Mailchimp Plugin now!
But, don’t worry, we have a 14-day money-back guarantee. If you don’t like the plugin, get a hold of us, and we’ll get your money back.
? Want to style your Mailchimp forms? How To Style Mailchimp Forms in WordPress
Step 1: Integrate Mailchimp with Formidable Forms
Once you install and activate Formidable Forms, let’s set Mailchimp to work.
First, head into your WordPress dashboard and go to Formidable → Global Settings → Mailchimp.


Here you’ll enter your Mailchimp API Key. If you don’t know where to find this, go to your Mailchimp account to Account → Extras → API Keys. If you don’t have one already, click ‘Create a Key.’
Copy this key, and paste it into the API key field in the Formidable plugin.
Step 2: Create a form in Formidable
Okay, we’ve got Mailchimp set up with Formidable.
Now, let’s create a form to be your Mailchimp signup form. Go to Formidable → Forms. Click Add New.


You can create a Blank Form or choose from one of the 150+ templates we have available.
If you choose a blank form, give the form a name and then click Create to start building.


Now, select the fields you’d like to have in your form. You can drag them onto the form canvas to start building it.


Click Update to save your form. Step two is done!
Step 3: Set Mailchimp settings inside the form editor
Last, inside the form you created, go to Settings → Actions & Notifications → Mailchimp. Select the Mailchimp list to which you want to add subscribers. 


Then, select any other settings you want for your lists, like tags, single or double opt-in, etc.
And that’s all! It’s that easy to use Formidable Forms for your Mailchimp WordPress plugin.
Ready to try the best Mailchimp WordPress plugin?
The official Mailchimp signup form plugin is good, but it isn’t great.
With Formidable Forms, you can take your abilities beyond what Mailchimp offers — in looks and functionality. That's what makes it the best WordPress Mailchimp plugin around.
Try the Best Mailchimp Plugin now!
For more information, check out our post on making a Mailchimp contact form in WordPress.
And, if you're on social media, follow us on Facebook and Twitter for more advice on how to improve your WordPress skills!
Learn more about Mailchimp today!





 How to Send Confirmation Emails in WordPress
Read More




 How To Embed a Mailchimp Contact Form in WordPress [4 Steps]
Read More




 How to Let Users Select MailChimp Groups in WordPress Forms
Read More









Using WordPress and want to get Formidable Forms for free?

Get Formidable Forms Lite Now



 Get Email Updates

 This article may contain affiliate links. Once in a while, we earn commissions from those links. But we only recommend products we like, with or without commissions.


 
Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

Δ 


Popular Resources







How To Create a Searchable Database on a WordPress Site 



Create a Custom Calculator in WordPress for Powerful Results 



How to Create a Fitness Tracker in WordPress 







Formidable Views: The Best WordPress Custom Application Plugin 



How To Require Email To Download Files in WordPress 



How to Create a WordPress Forms Drop Down List 







Best Gravity Forms Alternative for WordPress: Formidable Forms vs. Gravity Forms 



WPForms Alternative: Formidable Forms vs. WPForms Compared 







 


Take on bigger projects Right Now
Get the tools you need to revolutionize your
workflow and architect a masterpiece. Build the most advanced
WordPress forms and actually use the data you collect in
meaningful ways.
Get the most advanced WordPress form plugin and the only form
builder with integrated Views. 


Get Formidable Forms Now 



Resources

Community
Affiliates
Contact
Free Online Form Builder











Top Features

Application Builder
Calculator Plugin
Surveys & Polls
Quiz Maker
Form Templates
Application Templates
Directory Plugin
Donation Plugin

Company

About Us
Giving Back
Careers
Newsletter
WP Tasty
Nutrifox

Copyright © 2023 Strategy11, LLC. Formidable Forms® is a registered trademark Strategy11, LLC. 
Privacy Policy | Terms of Service | Sitemap


Join 300,000+ using Formidable Forms to create form-focused solutions fast.

Get Started
See User Reviews 














 

