


Donald Trump wonders how 'anybody who’s Jewish' could vote for Dems










 

 





























 
























































































































 











 




































Primary Menu





Sections







				Search			




				Search			






	Skip to search results

News
Metro
Page Six
Sports

NFL
MLB
NBA
NHL
College Football
College Basketball


Post Sports+
Sports Betting
Business

Personal Finance


Opinion
Entertainment

TV
Movies
Music
Celebrities
Awards
Theater


Shopping
Lifestyle

Weird But True
Health
Sex & Relationships
Viral Trends
Human Interest
Parenting
Fashion & Beauty
Food & Drink
Travel


Real Estate
Media
Tech
Astrology
Video
Photos
Visual Stories
Sub Menu 1

Today’s Paper
Covers
Columnists
Horoscopes
Games
Sports Odds
Podcasts
Careers


Sub menu 2

Email Newsletters
Official Store
Home Delivery
Tips


 



Search



Email





New York Post






 







			October 25, 2023		





				Search			





Search






Recommended

	Skip to main content

















































































 











 






 







 











News



FacebookTwitter


Flipboard

WhatsAppEmailCopy 




		Trump wonders how ‘anybody who’s Jewish’ could vote for Dems	


	By
	
Ryan King



										Social Links for Ryan King				



View Author Archive




Get author RSS feed


































		Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.	

		Back to Reading	







Published 
Oct. 9, 2023, 6:15 p.m. ET

















More On:

					donald trump				






								Trump glowers at Michael Cohen as ex-‘fixer’ testifies about inflating property values in NYC court: ‘Heck of a reunion’							





								Mark Meadows granted immunity in federal 2020 election case against Trump: report 							





								House Republican Whip Tom Emmer drops out of speaker race after vote win							





								Biden has doubled the deficit, putting us on a drive to disaster							







Former President Donald Trump openly pondered Monday how Jewish Americans could back Democrats during a New Hampshire screed against President Biden’s foreign policy following this past weekend’s deadly terrorist attack against Israel.
“I can’t imagine how anybody who’s Jewish or anybody who loves Israel — and frankly, the evangelicals just love Israel — I can’t imagine anybody voting Democrat, let alone for this man,” Trump said during remarks in Wolfeboro.
During his speech, the 77-year-old claimed Biden, 80, had “betrayed Israel,” citing the rampage by the Palestinian terror group Hamas that has killed at least 900 people in the Jewish state, including 11 Americans.
“Less than four years ago, we had peace in the Middle East with the historic Abraham Accords. Today we have all-out war in Israel, and it’s going to spread very quickly,” Trump predicted. “What a difference a president makes.”
The 45th president and 2024 Republican frontrunner vowed that he would “once again stand strongly” with Israel should he be elected to a second non-consecutive term.


4

Donald Trump is the commanding 2024 GOP frontrunner for the presidency.REUTERS
Trump has previously criticized Jews who support Democratic candidates, sending a message to that effect just last month on Rosh Hashanah.
“Just a quick reminder for liberal Jews who voted to destroy America & Israel because you believed in false narratives!” he wrote on Truth Social.
“Let’s hope you learned from your mistake & make better choices moving forward!”
In October of last year, the former president again asked Jewish Americans to vote for him. 


4

Donald Trump suggested that Hamas’ deadly attack on Israel would not have taken place under his watch. CJ GUNTHER/EPA-EFE/Shutterstock
“No President has done more for Israel than I have. Somewhat surprisingly, however, our wonderful Evangelicals are far more appreciative of this than the people of the Jewish faith, especially those living in the U.S.,” he wrote again on Truth Social.
“U.S. Jews have to get their act together and appreciate what they have in Israel – Before it is too late!” he added ominously. 
Trump has frequently crowed about his Middle East policies, including moving the US embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem and the Abraham Accords that saw Israel normalize relations with the Bahrain, Morocco, Sudan and the United Arab Emirates.
He also pursued a maximum pressure campaign against Israel’s archenemy, Iran.


4

Palestinians wave their national flag and celebrate by a destroyed Israeli tank at the Gaza Strip fence.AP
Still, the former president has also raged over the perceived lack of gratitude he’s received in response. 
“F— him,” Trump told Axios reporter Barak Ravid in 2021 about Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who was quick to recognize Biden’s 2020 election victory.
“People in this country that are Jewish no longer love Israel. I’ll tell you, the evangelical Christians love Israel more than the Jews in this country. It used to be that Israel had absolute power over Congress. And today I think it’s the exact opposite,” Trump also told Ravid.
In the 2020 presidential vote, Jewish Americans broke for Biden over Trump by more than two to one.


4

The Democratic Socialists of America arranged a pro-Palestinian rally in Times Square on Oct. 8, 2023.Twitter/@StuartMeissner
Should he return to the White House, Trump pledged to “cut off the money to Palestinian terrorists on Day One” and turn up the heat on Iran.
Israel has begun striking back at Hamas outposts in the Gaza Strip after the terrorist group fired off thousands of rockets and mounted a ground offensive into the country’s territory.

At least 900 Israelis are believed to have died in the violence with an estimated 2,600 wounded, according to Israel’s Army Radio.
Moreover, Hamas has claimed to have kidnapped more than 150 hostages and threatened to execute  them one by one live on social media in response to Israeli’s retaliation. 
 



Share this article:

FacebookTwitter


Flipboard

WhatsAppEmailCopy 







Filed under



									democrat								



									donald trump								



									foreign policy								



									israel								



									joe biden								


10/9/23 





Read Next


				Inside Israeli hospital after 'unprecedented' Hamas terror...			

























		Trending Now			
				on NYPost.com			




 


This story has been shared 56,145 times.
56,145






							22-year-old driver who mowed down 4 Pepperdine sorority sisters re-arrested, charges upgraded to murder: police						






 


This story has been shared 30,640 times.
30,640






							Latest migrant poll should scare the hell out of Democrats						






 


This story has been shared 24,393 times.
24,393






							I slept with 300 people in a year — here's what happened when one of my 'regulars' found out						















 










 



 what to shop now
 



 

							Price drop! These Breville machines are cheaper than they've been since 2020						





							When is Way Day 2023? Official dates, 36 early deals and more revealed						





							Amazon's Holiday Beauty Haul event is here, and you can save up to 50% on our must-have products						





							25 best belt bags and fanny packs of 2023 from lululemon, Gucci, more						





							The best last-minute Halloween costumes you can order in time 						














 






Now on
 Page Six













							Justin Timberlake ‘not at all happy’ with ex Britney Spears’ book: report						





							Julia Fox claims Kim Kardashian played a role in Kanye West breakup						





							Chris Pratt sparks debate over throwing out childhood trophies: ‘How many we gotta keep?’						




See All












 








		Video			
 







								Ghosts of the Revolutionary War Haunt NJ's Infamous Spy House							







				Now on				 Decider
















						‘Family Guy’ Brutally Mocks Prince Harry And Meghan Markle For Making Millions On “No One Knows What”					





			See All		







































Donald Trump is the commanding 2024 GOP frontrunner for the presidency. 
REUTERS



Donald Trump suggested that Hamas' deadly attack on Israel would not have taken place under his watch.  
CJ GUNTHER/EPA-EFE/Shutterstock



Palestinians wave their national flag and celebrate by a destroyed Israeli tank at the Gaza Strip fence. 
AP



The Democratic Socialists of America arranged a pro-Palestinian rally in Times Square on Oct. 8, 2023. 
Twitter/@StuartMeissner







You are viewing

1 of 4

images


Previous Image



Next Image









Advertisement







 



































				More Stories			






										Page Six									





											Jerry O'Connell claims wife Rebecca Romijn didn't have 'any warning' she'd be in John Stamos' memoir										
















										NYPost									





											22-year-old driver who mowed down 4 Pepperdine sorority sisters re-arrested, charges upgraded to murder: police										


















Facebook




Twitter




Instagram




LinkedIn




Email




YouTube








Sections & Features

News
Metro
Sports
Sports Betting
Business
Opinion
Entertainment
Fashion & Beauty
Shopping
Lifestyle
Real Estate
Media
Tech
Health
Travel
Astrology
Video
Photos
Visual Stories
Alexa
Covers
Horoscopes
Sports Odds
Podcasts
Columnists
Classifieds


Post Sports+

Subscribe
Articles
Manage


Newsletters & Feeds

Email Newsletters
RSS Feeds
NY Post Official Store
Home Delivery

Subscribe
Manage Subscription


Delivery Help


Help/Support

About New York Post
Customer Service
Apps Help
Community Guidelines
Contact Us

Tips
Newsroom
Letters to the Editor
Licensing & Reprints
Careers
Vulnerability Disclosure Program




Apps

iPhone App
iPad App
Android Phone
Android Tablet
Advertise

Self Service
Media Kit
Contact




 


© 2023 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Terms of Use
Membership Terms
Privacy Notice
Sitemap


				Your California Privacy Rights			

Do Not Sell My Personal Information


























Share Link




click to copy



























 

















 



