





















WTO | 2023 News items - Members discuss improvements to service exports data in LDCs, COVID-19, WTO reform






























WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION
Home  |  About WTO  |  News & events  |  Trade topics  |  WTO membership  |  Documents & resources  |  External relations
Contact us  |  Site map  |  A-Z  |  Search




 

español  français



home
wto news
2023  news
news item





SERVICES















More




  

 

In the Council meeting, members also continued reviewing  exemptions to the WTO's most-favoured nation principle and considered various  concerns raised by members regarding the impact of certain measures, such as  cybersecurity measures, on services trade. 
Health-related services in the wake of COVID-19
WTO members discussed  the implications of the COVID-19 pandemic for trade  in health-related services in an experience-sharing  session on 4 October. This was undertaken as part  of the WTO  response to pandemics,  which was mandated by ministers at MC12 last year. 
The WTO Secretariat outlined that the travel and border restrictions imposed during the pandemic  put severe pressure on health-related services traded through so-called “mode 2” (consumers or firms purchasing a service in another  country) and “mode 4” (individuals travelling from their own country  to supply services in another). Globally, these ways of trading services fell by  58 and 39 per cent respectively between 2019 and 2020. Health-related services  traded under “mode 1” (services supplied from one country to another),  however, grew by 14 per cent in 2020. 
Before the  pandemic, health-related services trade grew on average by 7 per cent annually,  almost double that of other services, as a result of poorer countries' GDP catching up with the  levels in richer countries, ageing populations and increasing digitalization,  among other factors. 
The event highlighted  challenges faced by economies during the pandemic. These included shortage of essential  workers, lack of digital infrastructure and problems with data connectivity. The  urgency in developing mechanisms for rapidly responding to disease outbreaks  and strengthening health systems was also highlighted.
Despite these  challenges, COVID-19 led to increased use of digital technologies, such as the roll-out  of online  provision of health services, online training programmes related to COVID-19 testing, and vaccine development  and delivery. 
The event underscored  a need for better preparation in the event of future pandemics, notably by  adopting regulatory frameworks that promote the deployment of novel health  solutions, facilitate the movement of essential health personnel in emergency  situations, and foster the resilience of the health workforce and  infrastructure. It also highlighted the importance of investing in health-related  services, scaling up global cooperation and maintaining trade flows. 
Improving LDCs' service exports data
WTO members  discussed improving LDCs' service exports data in a workshop held on 5 October.  The event brought together speakers from LDCs and other members. 
 The WTO Secretariat said that after declining during the pandemic, services trade recovered in 2022,  reaching a total of USD 6.78 trillion. This represents a 15 per cent increase on  an annual basis, and is 11 per cent above pre-pandemic levels. While trade in  transport rose 25 per cent in 2022, shipping rates have declined steadily since  May 2022. This reflected in part the return to  consumers’ previous spending on services and the global economic and  geopolitical context. Other services sectors recorded slower growth in  2022. However, this could be explained by the strong appreciation of the US  dollar against major currencies. 
LDCs' services had  been rising more quickly than in the rest of the world before the pandemic,  mainly due to tourism. However, a lingering effect of the pandemic remains for LDCs.  Their services exports were up by 27 per cent in 2022 but remained subdued, at  14 per cent below 2019 levels. 
Among the challenges reported by LDCs speaking at the  workshop were the high cost of surveys  and their coverage, the difficulty in capturing services data, the lack of awareness  of services-related terms by survey respondents, staff turnover, and the use of  different definitions by services compilers and services trade negotiators. 
The  Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa, which includes  13 LDCs among its 21 member states, stressed the need to mobilize resources to design  surveys that capture services exports through modes 1, 2 and 4, including on digitally  delivered services, on a bilateral basis, and the need to compile and  disseminate services trade data.
Speakers  from other WTO members shared their experiences in measuring services exports  in various sectors, bilaterally as well as on digitally delivered services,  services trade by mode of supply and by firm characteristics. Possible  solutions to some of the challenges faced by LDCs include the digitalization of  surveys to streamline processes, and initiatives to raise private sector  awareness of the importance of trade in services statistics and to build  public-private sector alliances. Other solutions include the establishment of  robust IT systems for data validation, and closer data sharing arrangements by  various agencies at national, regional and international levels.
Representatives from the International Monetary Fund, the United  Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the United Nations Statistics Division, the World Bank and the WTO explored possible ways forward to improve service exports data in LDCs. The panellists called for the allocation of dedicated  funds to services sectors that  present export growth opportunities, such as digitally delivered services, and  the production of statistics by partner country and by mode of supply. This  would help to assess the impact of preferences  notified by WTO members under the LDC Services Waiver (see below). Other suggestions were to  enhance inter-agency cooperation and capacity-building and to integrate business and trade statistics. 
Implementing MC12 mandates
LDC Services Waiver
In the Council meeting, the WTO  LDC Group said that it has set up a questionnaire to gather  information on the activities of LDC services suppliers and consumers in  preference-providing members' markets. It underlined the importance of implementing  the MC12  Outcome Document's paragraph 8, which  instructs the Council “to review and promote the operationalization of the  waiver”.
A total of 51 members have notified preferences for  LDC services and service suppliers under the Services Waiver. The  waiver was formalized by a decision adopted at the 2011  Ministerial Conference.
A total of 36 WTO  members are classified as LDCs. More information on the waiver can be  found here.
WTO reform
The Council discussed a compilation of members' suggestions on  how to improve the functioning of services bodies in the WTO and a new communication by the United Kingdom on this issue. Building  on previous  suggestions from the LDC Group, the objectives of the paper are to revitalise discussions on  services at the WTO in an inclusive manner and maximise efficiency, the UK  noted. Among the UK's suggestions are to adopt an e-Agenda, promote substantive  deliberations on trade in services issues and facilitate the engagement of external  stakeholders. “Ahead of MC13, the UK calls on all members to consider  creative, inclusive, and practical ways to widen and deepen the trade in  services agenda,” the communication states.
Pandemic response
As part of the pandemic response exchanges, members discussed  a new submission by India on trade-related measures it has taken in response to  the COVID-19 pandemic. While some members noted the importance of discussing  these topics in the aftermath of the crisis, others questioned the relevance of  the WTO's  General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS) to some of the issues raised.
E-commerce Work Programme
Members discussed a new communication by the WTO's African  Group entitled “The  role of transfer of technology in resilience building: Work Programme on  Electronic Commerce”, which suggests a discussion on how technology  transfer can assist in bridging the digital divide, the WTO contribution to  this process and how to balance the accessibility to source code with a secure  and transparent technology environment. Some  members pointed out that technology transfer depends on multiple factors, such  as intellectual property frameworks, infrastructure and regulatory frameworks.
A few members provided  information on their domestic training and capacity-building initiatives.
Highlighting the importance of collating more data on digital  trade, reference was made to the July launch of the second edition of the Handbook  on Measuring Digital Trade by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and  Development, the WTO, the United  Nations Conference on Trade and Development and the International Monetary Fund.
Exemptions to WTO MFN  principle
Members continued reviewing each other's exemptions to the Most-Favoured  Nation (MFN) principle, under which  governments are normally prevented from discriminating between WTO members. The  purpose of the review is to examine whether the conditions creating the need  for the exemptions still exist. Highlighting the importance of engaging in the  review, some members stressed the importance of eventually reducing exemptions that are  currently in place. 
The list of members' exemptions can be found here.  At its June meeting, the Council decided to defer the decision on the date of the  next review to 2028. The latest review took place in 2016. 
Services trade concerns
Members discussed four specific trade concerns previously  addressed in the Council involving cybersecurity measures and 5G-related  measures, among other services-related topics.
Japan and the United States, supported by several other  members, reiterated concerns about the cybersecurity  measures of China and Viet Nam. China recalled its concerns about Australia's  5G measures and repeated  concerns with certain measures of the United States. China also reiterated  its concerns regarding  India's measures in relation to mobile applications.
Many members took the floor to condemn the war in Ukraine  and Russia's actions. The Russian delegate responded by saying that the WTO was  not the proper venue for a discussion of this nature.


Share

 



Share


  













 RSS news feeds



Problems viewing this page? If so, please contact [email protected] giving details of the operating system and web browser you are using.






















