







Tug of War - Podcast on CNN Audio













CNN


CNN Audio







9 AM ET: Speaker nominee hopeful, Trump allies turning, World Series set & more
5 Things
Listen toCNN 5 Things
Wed, Oct 25



New Episodes




CNN 5 Things





Before The Bell





CNN 5 Cosas





CNN 5 Things





How To Listen
On your computer
On your mobile device
Smart speakers


Explore CNN
US
World
Politics
Business






special
Tug of War
CNN reporters take us on-the-ground in Israel to document the escalating conflict and what it means for the rest of the world.

Follow



Follow



Apple Podcasts



Spotify



Google Podcasts



Audacy



TuneIn



iHeart Radio



Pandora



Amazon



RSS
















Families Of Hostages Are Holding Out Hope
Tug of War
Note: this episode contains graphic descriptions of violence. 
Four hostages taken by Hamas on October 7 have been freed and talks to secure the release of more are ongoing between the US, Israel, Qatar, Egypt and Hamas. In this episode, CNN’s Kaitlan Collins breaks down where things stand on the diplomatic front and shares her conversation with one Israeli family anxiously waiting to hear about their son.
Oct 24, 2023
18 mins







Will Israel Delay its Gaza Ground Assault?
Tug of War
As Israel continues to pound Gaza with airstrikes as retaliation for the deadly Hamas terror attacks, many are wondering how soon it will launch a full ground offensive into the enclave. However, two sources briefed on the discussions tell CNN that the US is seeking to delay that operation in hopes of getting more hostages out and aid into Gaza. In this episode, we examine what a ground incursion could look like and its potential impact on civilians.
Oct 23, 2023
13 mins







What It’s Like Trying to Survive in Gaza
Tug of War
Conditions on the ground in Gaza continue to deteriorate as Israel repeatedly bombards the strip with airstrikes in retaliation for the brutal Hamas terror attack. As the situation worsens, aid agencies are warning that hospitals are almost out of fuel. In this episode, we hear from four people on the ground who are fighting to survive the war: an aid worker running low on food and water, a 13-year-old girl, a woman who is nine months pregnant with her first child, and a translator who is housing over 50 other people in his small home.
Oct 20, 2023
17 mins







How Hamas Shattered Israel’s Sense of Safety
Tug of War
When Hamas launched its attack on Israel, many military experts were surprised by how well-organized it seemed. Now, CNN has reviewed documents that Israeli officials say were Hamas attack plans revealing granular details on its targets. This episode examines the context of those documents and how a group of volunteer guards in one kibbutz were able to help fight off a group of militants.
Oct 19, 2023
15 mins







What Did Biden’s Trip to Israel Accomplish? 
Tug of War
President Joe Biden’s trip to Tel Aviv was overshadowed by outrage over a devastating blast at a hospital in Gaza that is being highly contested in the region. In this episode, CNN’s International Diplomatic Editor, Nic Robertson explains how the US’ strong support for Israel could be tested, and what came out of this high stakes visit while the humanitarian situation in Gaza worsens.
Oct 18, 2023
13 mins







How Hezbollah Could Shift the War
Tug of War
As fighting intensifies between Israel and Gaza, Hezbollah’s the third player on the sidelines that could shift how things turn out for Israel. What happens if they get involved? What would the cost be for Israel if another front opens on its border with Lebanon? CNN’s Ben Wedeman explains what a double-sided war could mean for Israel.
Oct 17, 2023
13 mins







Inside the Race for Relief in Gaza
Tug of War
Millions of Palestinians remain without basic supplies in Gaza ahead of a possible Israeli ground incursion. Meanwhile, those who want to evacuate find themselves with no way out while the border crossing between Gaza and Egypt remains closed. In today’s episode, we look at the diplomatic efforts to bring relief to those who need it as the death toll in Gaza continues to rise.
Oct 16, 2023
16 mins







Why One Man Says His Daughter’s Death is a Blessing
Tug of War
Warning: what you’ll hear in this episode is disturbing.  
With each passing day, the true brutality of Hamas’ attack on Israel is coming into sharper focus. At the same time, Israel says its troops carried out local raids in the Gaza strip. In this episode, CNN Chief International Correspondent Clarissa Ward tells us stories of grief and strength out of the Be’eri kibbutz, which bore the brunt of Hamas’ attacks. One resident felt “relief,” after learning of his daughter’s death.
Oct 13, 2023
17 mins







What is Hamas’ Endgame?
Tug of War
Hamas’ latest attacks on Israel is once again making the international community pick sides in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. But what is the militant organization’s end game? In this episode, CNN Senior International Correspondent Sam Kiley breaks down the history of Hamas and the calculations that could be behind the attacks.
Oct 12, 2023
11 mins







Israel Sets Up a War Cabinet. Is a Ground Incursion Next?
Tug of War
Warning, this episode contains descriptions of violence. As the conflict enters the fifth day, Israel’s military continues to pound Gaza with airstrikes, while Israel forms an emergency government and war cabinet. In this episode, CNN's Hadas Gold explains what this move says about Israel’s military strategy, as fears of a regional conflict rise.
Oct 11, 2023
11 mins







Show more episodes






















0:01



1:22:37







Follow CNN





















Terms of Use


Privacy Policy


Ad Choices





About Us


CNN Studio Tours


CNN Store


Newsletters


Transcripts


License Footage


CNN Newsource


Sitemap



© 2023 Cable News Network
A Warner Bros. Discovery Company.
All Rights Reserved.


CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.

































