












Efficio´s Category Insights & Outlook 2023 H2















































            
              UK & Ireland
            
          


Deutschland


France


Italia


MENA


Nordics


North America







Efficio








        About us
      




About us

      Who we are
    
      Our team
    
      Our locations
    
      CSR at Efficio
    


Media

      Efficio in the news
    
      Press releases
    







        How we help
      




How we help

      Capability and capacity
    
      Cost optimisation
    
      Mergers and acquisitions
    
      Procurement excellence
    
      Supply chain management
    
      Sustainability and ESG
    




Services
Find out more about the many ways we work with you to help you achieve your procurement and supply chain objectives.

View all services





Industries

      Construction and infrastructure
    
      Energy and utilities
    
      Financial services
    
      Food, retail and hospitality
    
      Manufacturing
    
      Pharma and healthcare
    
      Private equity
    
      Public sector
    
      Technology, media, and telecoms
    






Insights


Events



        Careers
      




Careers

      Careers
    
      Life at Efficio
    
      Diversity, equity, and inclusion
    
      Efficio women’s network
    
      eConnect – Efficio alumni network
    
      Explore roles
    




Explore roles
Whether you're a graduate or experienced consultant, a career at Efficio offers stimulating, rewarding work with big-name clients across the globe.
Ready to apply? View our latest vacancies and apply.

Apply now










Search








Contact















EFFICIO RESEARCH SERIES
 
Category Insights & Outlook  
Welcome to Category Insights & Outlook H2 2023, the second release in our Efficio research series.
In response to an increasing number of requests for our insights relating to factors impacting procurement and supply chain, we have refreshed our commentaries on a select number of categories and sectors. Our Research and Insights (R&I) team and subject matter experts (SMEs) have compiled summaries of the current situation, outlined trends from the last six months, explained what we expect to see over the short and medium term, and provided guidance on how to navigate these uncertain times.1 
In our H2 2023 update, we take a deep dive into four key categories / sectors that have experienced significant changes over the last six months: Energy, Food & Agriculture, Logistics, and Metals.
 














Executive SummaryAs of Q3 2023, global supply chains have largely recovered from the shocks experienced by the onset of the Russia-Ukraine war and, though commodity prices overall exceed pre-pandemic levels, many markets have now seen power return to the buyer side.Energy prices, which spiked last year amidst natural gas supply disruptions, particularly in Europe, have significantly come down from their peaks, despite seeing a slight uptick in recent months. In logistics, lower fuel costs and a stronger supply capacity position outpacing lowered consumer demand mean freight rates have seen dramatic declines. The first half of this year also saw food commodity prices and supply shortages ease significantly compared to 2022 highs.However, the forces that hindered growth over the last year persist, and global markets remain vulnerable to volatility, with various upside and downside risks:Geopolitical tensions between Russia and Ukraine could intensify and impact trade routes, as well as further raise food and energy prices. The recent suspension of the Black Sea Grain Initiative, which previously allowed ships to safely export grain, foodstuffs, and fertiliser from Ukrainian ports, is a key concern.Persistent macroeconomic headwinds and lower global demand than expected, particularly given China’s underwhelming recovery. Stubborn inflation and successive interest rates hikes in Europe and US have also weakened consumption in the context of diminished consumer confidence – and resulted in reduced manufacturing activity. With demand for consumer goods down, logistics pressures have eased, along with prices for key input goods such as metals. However, any demand-side boost from unexpectedly high stimulus would again see these categories impacted.Climate change giving rise to increasingly unpredictable and extreme weather. El Niño is causing unprecedented high temperatures and droughts across Europe over the summer and is likely to bring a colder, harsher winter, which would see natural gas supplies and electricity prices pressured again. Extreme weather has also impacted crops and has the potential to increase food commodity prices, which have begun to rise again in recent months.





Categories experiencing significant change


Energy
With a highly unstable environment impacted by sharp price rises affecting most industries, we expect this trend to only continue despite government intervention and other efforts.


      Read more
    











Food & Agriculture
While high food commodity prices and supply shortages have eased considerably compared to their peaks last year, the food market remains volatile and continues to be marked by supply chain risks and macroeconomic pressures.


      Read more
    





Logistics
The cost of fuel has led to a pattern of instability. However, we anticipate an overall improved outlook for 2023. Stabilisation will be driven by a number of factors, such as changes in buying patterns due to inflation.


      Read more
    











Metals
High volatility continues throughout 2023 on both the supply and demand side, as Metals have been particularly impacted by the economic recession.


      Read more
    





1. Please note the geographical scope for each category may differ and will be flagged accordingly
This information is presented for information purposes only. Efficio disclaims any representations or warranties (express or implied) with respect to the information, and it should not be used as a substitute for consultation with professional advisors. Any use of this information is at the user’s own risk. Note this data and related contents refer to circumstances as at end of September 2023.







Sign up
Join our mailing list to receive the latest research, insights, and event invites from Efficio
Sign up by clicking on the button below to receive future Category Insights & Outlook reports, the latest news, trends, and insights on the world of procurement and supply chain from our experts straight to your inbox.

Join our mailing list












Efficio

Partners in progress





      About us
    



      How we help
    



      Careers
    



      Contact
    



      Legal
    



      Modern Slavery Statement
    






Copyright © 2023 Efficio consulting. All rights reserved.















