





















Ex-Arsenal attacker puts Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi alongside Troy Deeney while making interesting choice for 'ultimate' striker

























































































×

































Football 


WWE


NBA


NFL


MMA


Tennis


POP Culture








Golf


MLB


Fortnite


Cricket


Fortnite Item Shop


Health & Fitness


Gaming


Minecraft


F1


Motorsports


Fantasy Cricket


Fantasy Football Trade Analyzer



















Notifications






















Log in









Manage your profile




Logout

















Football 






Home


Newsletters


Schedule


FIFA-W WC'23


EPL


Champions League


Nations League


La Liga


Ligue 1


MLS 


Bundesliga 


Serie A 





More























Football


MLS 2023-24


Ex-Arsenal attacker puts Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi alongside Troy Deeney while making interesting choice for 'ultimate' striker






























Ex-Arsenal attacker puts Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi alongside Troy Deeney while making interesting choice for 'ultimate' striker







By
Rahul Naresh



Modified Oct 11, 2023 05:45 GMT










Follow Us



 Comment






Share









Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo (via Getty Images)










Former Arsenal attacker Folarin Balogun has picked both Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo while building his ultimate football striker. Interestingly, Balogun named English striker Troy Deeney alongside the aforementioned duo.

The 22-year-old USA striker secured a move to Monaco from Arsenal for a fee of €30 million last summer after impressing during his loan spell at fellow French club Stade de Reims last season. 







Balogun bagged 21 goals from 37 Ligue 1 appearances during the 2022-23 campaign.
       Expand Tweet  
Coming back to Balogun building his perfect striker, he first chose Cristiano Ronaldo for his ability to head the ball. So far in his club career, the Portuguese ace has managed to score 115-headed goals, thus becoming a popular figure for his ability to leap and hang time.
The Real Madrid icon's highest jump measures 2.93 meters, which was recorded when he represented Los Blancos in a Round of 16 Champions League tie against Manchester United in 2012-13.




Balogun then went on to pick Lionel Messi for his ability to dribble with the ball. The Argentine skipper is also a great goalscorer, having netted 672 times in 778 appearances across competitions for his former employers Barcelona.
Finally, the former Gunner chose ex-Watford striker Troy Deeney for the latter's work rate. Although unsure of his answer, Balogun stuck with the 35-year-old forward, who has managed 47 Premier League goals for Watford.

"Class as a player"- When Inter Miami co-owner David Beckham settled the GOAT debate between Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi
Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo (via Getty Images)




Former Manchester United star and current Inter Miami co-owner David Beckham admitted that both Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo are a cut above the rest of the footballing world.
However, stating that Messi is in a league of his own, the former Real Madrid player placed the Argentine icon above his Portuguese rival. 
"He [Messi] is alone in his class as a player, it is impossible that there is another like him. He, like Cristiano Ronaldo, who is not at his level, are both above the rest," Beckham told Argentine outlet Telam in 2022.
It's no surprise that Beckham decided to bring Messi to Inter Miami. The 36-year-old forward joined the Herons this summer and has since bagged 11 goals and five assists from 13 appearances across competitions.Messi is also a seven-time Ballon d'Or, three-time Champions League, and 10-time La Liga winner. He further solidified his status by helping Argentina win the World Cup in Qatar last year, bagging seven goals and three assists in the process.





Quick Links






MLS 2023-24


Arsenal


Real Madrid CF Football


Barcelona


AS Monaco Football


Cristiano Ronaldo


Lionel Messi







More from Sportskeeda






Edited by Samya Majumdar 







×














Feedback

Thank You!
 







 Be the first one to comment 





Follow Us






Share











Show More Comments































More from Sportskeeda














Fetching more content...



































































 
















1




✕







 


✕






















🔍 Search







No Results Found





Get the free App now



Advertise On SK




🔥 Popular







🏃🏻‍♀️ Sports (30+)











🔗 LINKS


About Us


Write For Us


Policies


Grievance Redressal


Editorial Standards


Journalism Awards


Fact Check


Affiliate Program


Careers


CSR


Privacy Policy


Contact Us





Edition: 



English


हिन्दी

























