Maddow connects the dots on how Trump adding Chad to his travel ban may have gotten soldiers killed in Niger - Raw StorySubscriptions
        
    SUBSCRIBE FOR $1
  About usJobsUS NEWSInvestigationsOpinionvideoHELPget the newsletter
    SUBSCRIBE FOR $1
  Home
        Shop to Support Independent Journalism
      TrumpU.S. NewsWorldScienceVideoInvestigationsEthics Policy
               
      
        Maddow connects the dots on how Trump adding Chad to his travel ban may have gotten soldiers killed in Niger
    Sarah K. BurrisOctober 19, 2017 10:03PM ET
        Rachel Maddow on Chad (Photo: Screen capture)
    When President Donald Trump's White House instituted the travel ban and randomly added the African country of Chad to the list, MSNBC's Rachel Maddow says it may have destabilized the region. That lack of allied troops could have then been the cause of the deaths of the four soldiers killed two weeks ago in Niger.Maddow began by walking through the extensive history of the groups of African and French fighters who have managed to battle Islamic extremists like ISIS and Boko Haram in central Africa and actually win. Most of these groups are headquartered in Chad, because the best of the best soldiers managed to run out the majority of the terrorist groups.Yet, somehow, Chad ended up on Trump's travel ban list. When it did, there was an uproar of foreign policy experts who warned this was a terrible decision because it would destabilize the region and isolate American troops fighting there. Both the State and Defense Departments were also opposed to Trump's decision to put Chad on the list, because they knew it would cause military problems in the area. But the Trump administration demanded it."Several terrorist groups are active in Chad," Maddow cited the administration's reasoning. "If that's the reason you end up on the travel ban list, why wouldn't you put Mali or Niger or even Iraq and Afghanistan?"A former State Department official who worked on that region went even further, telling the New York Times that putting Chad on that list could truly put Americans in harm's way.Chad then began to withdraw their troops from the fight against Boko Haram in Niger. In fact, Chad's troops were gone a week after Trump added Chad to the ban list. According to Reuters, once the soldiers left, Boko Haram moved back in and people began to flee for their lives again. Shortly after the "battle-hardened" Chad fighters left, four American soldiers were attacked and killed in an ambush by ISIS extremists in Niger. Chad announced it began pulling its troops out two weeks ago on Oct. 13, which Maddow said would put their timeline for withdrawal at the end of September."Which would be the Friday after the Trump administration made this decision to insult and harm our closest military ally in that region, against ISIS and Boko Haram where ISIS has been trying to establish another caliphate," Maddow said. "But those Chadian troops were really doing something in Niger. They were protecting those villages in that whole region from ISIS militant groups being able to operate freely and be able to take more territory from there once again. And pulling those troops out had an immediate effect in emboldening those ISIS attacks."Within days of the Chadian soldiers beginning to pull out from protecting those villages from ISIS, four soldiers were ambushed."So, no wonder the president doesn't want to talk about it," she said. "The AFRICOM spokesperson from the U.S. military has said the death of the four American soldiers 'was not expected.' And troops had done more than two dozen patrols in the last six months with no problem. But this one was different. Certainly in it's result. Potentially in it's cause."Wednesday Americans learned the official excuse for why the Trump administration decided to pull out of Chad. According to The Guardian, it was because the country didn't send a sample passport that proved it couldn't be faked. Chad had to stop issuing passports for six months because the country ran out of the forgery proof passport paper. They asked the Trump administration if they could send a recently printed passport but the Trump administration said no. So, they didn't send their passport example to the Trump administration and the Trump administration put them on the ban list, ignoring the closest military ally in the region.The Pentagon prepared a statement for Trump on the incident, but Trump has not made that statement as of yet.Watch the clips in two parts below:Part 1:Part 2:Video
  For customer support contact
  support@rawstory.com. Report typos and corrections to
  corrections@rawstory.com.
Stories Chosen For YouREAD COMMENTS - JOIN THE DISCUSSION
        Should Trump be allowed to run for office?
    
        Morning Joe gloats as Trump allies flip: All fun and games until you follow him to prison
    Travis GettysOctober 25, 2023MSNBC's Joe Scarborough exulted as more Donald Trump allies have flipped against him in criminal cases involving his attempt to overturn his 2020 election loss.Jenna Ellis on Tuesday became the third Trump attorney to plead guilty in the Georgia election interference case, joining Sidney Powell and Kenneth Chesebro, and sources confirmed that former White House chief of staff Mark Meadows had been granted immunity to testify against the former president in special counsel Jack Smith's Jan. 6 case.CONTINUE READINGShow less
        How Trump lawyer Jenna Ellis could face more hot water in Colorado following plea deal
    Quentin Young, Colorado NewslineOctober 25, 2023
	Jenna Ellis, previously a lawyer for former President Donald Trump, could face renewed official scrutiny of her professional conduct after she pleaded guilty on Tuesday to a felony charge in Georgia.

	Ellis, who until recently was a Colorado resident and who is licensed to practice law in the state, was publicly censured in March by state authorities who oversee the professional conduct of attorneys. As part of the censure, Ellis admitted that multiple statements she made on Trump’s behalf in late 2020 about the presidential election being stolen were “misrepresentations.”

	In August, she was named, along with Trump, as one of 19 criminal defendants in an election interference-related racketeering case in Fulton County, Georgia. On Tuesday, Ellis arrived at the Fulton County Superior Court and pleaded guilty to a charge of aiding and abetting false statements and writings. She agreed to be sentenced to five years of probation, a $5,000 fine and 100 hours of community service.
CONTINUE READINGShow less
        All-male commission passes abortion travel ban in Lubbock County, Texas
    Brett Wilkins, Common DreamsOctober 25, 2023Seeking to create a "sanctuary for the unborn," commissioners in Lubbock County, Texas voted Monday to empower citizens to sue individuals assisting pregnant people who travel in unincorporated areas of the county for the purpose of having an abortion.The Lubbock Avalanche-Journal reported Commissioners Terence Kovar, Jason Corley, and Jordan Rackler all voted in favor of the ordinance, with the body's two other members—County Judge Curtis Parrish and Commissioner Gilbert Flores—abstaining.CONTINUE READINGShow less Thom Hartmann
        How Trump’s MAGA GOP increases the risk of WWIII
    Bobby Azarian, Raw Story
        A neuroscientist explains why some Republicans torpedoed Jim Jordan and are defying Trump
    Sarah K. BurrisMatt Laslo
        Tom Emmer accused of holding GOP caucus hostage in speaker vote
      
    Copyright © 2023 Raw Story Media, Inc. PO Box 21050, Washington, D.C. 20009 |
    Masthead  |
    Privacy Policy  |
    Manage Preferences | Debug Logs
    For corrections contact
    corrections@rawstory.com, for support contact
    support@rawstory.com.
  {{ post.roar_specific_data.api_data.analytics }}