


ActBlue







































          Making a contribution on ActBlue requires JavaScript to be enabled.
        


Donate to reelect Joe Biden and Kamala HarrisJoe Biden and Kamala Harris are running for reelection. It’s going to take this full team at Joe and Kamala’s backs to finish the job and deliver four more years for Democrats in the White House. Will you pitch in today?          Contribution rulesI am a U.S. citizen or lawfully admitted permanent resident (i.e., green card holder).This contribution is made from my own funds, and funds are not being provided to me by another person or entity for the purpose of making this contribution.I am at least eighteen years old.I am not a federal contractor.I am making this contribution with my own personal credit card and not with a corporate or business credit card or a card issued to another person.Contributions to Biden For President are not deductible as charitable contributions for Federal income tax purposes. The campaign does not accept contributions from corporations or their PACs, unions, federal government contractors, national banks, those registered as federal lobbyists or under the Foreign Agents Registration Act, SEC-named executives of fossil fuel companies (i.e., companies whose primary business is the extraction, processing, distribution or sale of oil, gas or coal); or foreign nationals. To comply with Federal law, we must use our best efforts to obtain, maintain, and submit the name, mailing address, occupation and name of the employer of individuals whose contributions exceed $200 per election. By submitting your contribution you agree that the first $3,300 of a contribution will be designated for the 2024 primary election, and any additional amount up to $3,300 will be designated for the 2024 general election.

By providing your mobile phone number you consent to receive recurring automated text messages from Biden for President. Message & Data Rates May Apply. Text HELP for Info. Text STOP to opt out. No purchase necessary. Please read our Privacy Policy and Terms of Service to understand how information about you is collected, used and disclosed by BFPCC, Inc. and any affiliates.By proceeding with this transaction, you agree to ActBlue's terms & conditions.Paid for by ActBlue (actblue.com) and not authorized by any candidate or candidate's committee.Contributions or gifts to ActBlue are not deductible as charitable contributions for Federal income tax purposes.




