'Unthinkable': Tim Scott’s blaming of President Biden for Israel attack met with outrage - Raw StorySubscriptions
        
    SUBSCRIBE FOR $1
  About usJobsUS NEWSInvestigationsOpinionvideoHELPget the newsletter
    SUBSCRIBE FOR $1
  Home
        Shop to Support Independent Journalism
      TrumpU.S. NewsWorldScienceVideoInvestigationsEthics Policy
               
      
        'Unthinkable': Tim Scott’s blaming of President Biden for Israel attack met with outrage
    David Badash, The New Civil Rights MovementOctober 10, 2023 11:10PM ET
        YouTube screen grab
    U.S. Senator Tim Scott’s claim President Joe Biden bears responsibility for the Hamas terrorist attacks on Israel, and has “blood on his hands” after more than 1000 Israelis were slaughtered, is being met with outrage.“Mercy,” Senator Scott said in his remarks at The Hudson Institute, which has been described as a “hawkish think tank that heavily relies on Pentagon funding."“There is no both sides,” Scottt continued Tuesday. “There is no moral equivalency. We’re talking about terrorists killing innocent people. There is right and there is wrong. It’s black and white. And there should be no doubt where our loyalties as a nation lie.”“We have seen the face of evil. The President of the United States has a moral duty to lead with strength and clarity. So while Hamas carried out these attacks, Joe Biden has blood on his hands,” Scott claimed.“His weakness invited the attack. His cash giveaways to Iran help fund terrorism and after the attack, his administration suggested that Israel just stand down, is a disgrace. We need a president who was loyal to our allies yet lethal to our adversaries because weakness has never purchased peace, being passive is a provocation.”READ MORE: Santos Slapped With 10 Additional Federal Felony ChargesScott’s claim, that President Biden gave away cash to Iran and that cash helped fund terrorism is false, has been widely debunked, including by Fox News Chief National Security Correspondent Jennifer Griffin.Senator Scott’s presidential campaign is ranking at number seven and polling at just 2.4%, according to the right-leaning website RealClearPolitics. On Tuesday conservative columnist George Will urged the South Carolina Republican to drop out and endorse Nikki Haley.Outrage and anger followed Scott’s attack on the President.Former Republican and former GOP Congressman Joe Walsh blasted Sen. Scott:“This is so f***ing despicable @SenatorTimScott. And wrong. Just an ugly thing to say. Good God, I thought you were better than this. What the hell happened to you? Shame on you. Shame on you.”READ MORE: Texas GOP House Speaker Condemns ‘Hitler Apologists,’ Lt. Gov. Who Took $3 Million Donation Calls for His ResignationPolitical commentator Keith Olbermann remarked, “What a gutless political prostitute @SenatorTimScott truly is.”The Bulwark’s Tim Miller, the former Jeb Bush presidential campaign communications director, responded saying: “This would’ve been unthinkable rhetoric from Dems after 9/11. Had John Kerry said something like this about W, Fox would still be having outraged segments about it to this day. There’s plenty of room to criticize Biden without equating America to baby decapitating terrorists.”Watch Sen. Scott’s remarks below or at this link.Raw Exclusives2024 Elections
  For customer support contact
  support@rawstory.com. Report typos and corrections to
  corrections@rawstory.com.
Stories Chosen For YouREAD COMMENTS - JOIN THE DISCUSSION
        Should Trump be allowed to run for office?
    
        Staff Bio: M.L.Nestel
    John ByrneOctober 25, 2023
	M.L. Nestel is an award-winning writer and editor whose work has frequently been published in New York Magazine, Los Angeles Magazine, and The Guardian, among other titles. He also produces and writes for TV shows and podcasts. Prior to that, he served on the Newsweek masthead as a Senior Writer, wrote as a Correspondent at ABC News, and held the titles of West Coast Bureau Chief and Senior Writer at The Daily Beast. Priors also include working as Senior National Correspondent at The Daily Mail, and Investigative Reporter at all three NYC tabloids The New York Post,The New York Daily News, and Newsday. He traveled around the country as a National Correspondent at The Daily. M.L. published hundreds of stories about underground music and cinema -- most notably as a Critic for Box Office Magazine and the New York Editor at Soma Magazine. He also headed development at Fountainhead Films. M.L. splits his time between Los Angeles and New York.Read M.L.Nestel's stories.
        Staff Bio: Kathleen Culliton
    John ByrneOctober 25, 2023
	Kathleen Culliton is Raw Story's assistant managing editor. She's been covering local and national news for more than a decade for outlets that include the New York Post, Al Jazeera, DNAinfo New York, Bustle, the New York Daily News, WNYC, NY1, City Limits and the New York City Patch. Kathleen is a proud alumna of the CUNY Graduate School of Journalism. Here's a shocker; she is from New York City. Read Kathleen Culliton's stories.
        'Shut up!': GOPers boo reporter who asks about 2020 election subversion efforts
    David McAfeeOctober 25, 2023A reporter for ABC who was simply asking about the goings on of the Congress was booed by the entire GOP conference Tuesday.House Republicans chose a new speaker-designate, Mike Johnson, in an effort to end the ongoing chaos in the House. A reporter attempted to ask about his record on election denial.CONTINUE READINGShow less Sarah K. BurrisMatt Laslo
        Tom Emmer accused of holding GOP caucus hostage in speaker vote
    Mark Alesia, Investigative Reporter
        GOP congressman — a retired Navy SEAL — uses foreign warship photo in salute to U.S. Navy
    David Badash, The New Civil Rights Movement
        Trump serves up massively false claim about his 91 criminal charges
      
    Copyright © 2023 Raw Story Media, Inc. PO Box 21050, Washington, D.C. 20009 |
    Masthead  |
    Privacy Policy  |
    Manage Preferences | Debug Logs
    For corrections contact
    corrections@rawstory.com, for support contact
    support@rawstory.com.
  {{ post.roar_specific_data.api_data.analytics }}