



  



Can a roof’s material cool the outside air and lower energy demand? An Argonne study says it can. | Business Wire

















































































Can a roof’s material cool the outside air and lower energy demand? An Argonne study says it can.






September 29, 2023 06:06 PM Eastern Daylight Time



LEMONT, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--With increasingly warming temperatures during the summer months, urban cities like Chicago need to arm decision makers and communities with information about strategies to help keep their residents cool. One strategy involves something all buildings already have: a roof. Certain roofing materials can help cool the surrounding outside air and decrease the need for air conditioning (AC).


To help understand how climate is affecting urban communities, researchers at the U.S. Department of Energy’s Argonne National Laboratory examined three different types of roofing strategies and their impact on near-surface temperature and cooling energy demand through regional modeling in the Chicago metropolitan area.


The team ran a regional climate model simulating the Chicago metro area and three types of roofs: cool (painted a heat-reflecting white), green (vegetation), and solar panels.


They found that the three types of roofs reduced the near-surface temperature and AC consumption demand during daytime hours when air temperature is the highest. Because all the roofing strategies offer cooling effects, they reduce AC consumption. Cool roofs reduced AC energy consumption the most, followed by green roofs and solar panel roofs. Energy demand was shown to be reduced by 16.6%, 14.0%, and 7.6%, when cool roofs, green roofs, and solar panel roofs are deployed, respectively.


Overall, the large-scale deployment of cool roofs showed the best potential for cooling effects and cooling energy saving. They cost less than the other two technologies and they do not require additional water. Stakeholders can use results of the study to inform sustainable development approaches, lower summertime cooling energy demand, and help minimize greenhouse gas emissions in the long term over the Chicago region.


This work was conducted as part of the Community Research on Climate & Urban Science (CROCUS) Urban Integrated Field Laboratory. CROCUS is led by Argonne in partnership with academic and community organizations and civic and industry champions. Focused on the Chicago region, CROCUS studies urban climate change and its implications for environmental justice.


The results of this baseline study will help CROCUS communities plan and test mitigation options and are a good starting point for what the researchers hope to achieve next, a city-scale and global-scale model for each of the roofing options.




Contacts

Christopher J. Kramer
Head of Media Relations
Argonne National Laboratory
media@anl.gov 
Office: 630.252.5580















Release Summary
Researchers examined three different types of roofing strategies and their impact on near-surface temperature and cooling energy demand.


Social Media Profiles

'Like' Argonne on Facebook
Follow Argonne on Twitter
Argonne on LinkedIn





Contacts

Christopher J. Kramer
Head of Media Relations
Argonne National Laboratory
media@anl.gov 
Office: 630.252.5580











 
 

 



Site Navigation


Home


Home


Submit a Press Release




Services


News


All News


News with Multimedia


News by Industry


News by Subject


News by Language


Tradeshows & Events




Education


Overview


Blog


Distribution & Media


Media & Journalist Tools


Sample Press Release


Find Your News Online


Disclosure Resources




About Us


Overview


Become a Member


Contact Us


Careers


Business Wire Newsroom


Business Wire Events








Search




Advanced News Search

Advanced News Search













Log In
Sign Up









Follow Us

Twitter
LinkedIn



More from Business Wire

Blog
UK/Ireland
Deutschland
France
Hong Kong
Italy
Japan
Tradeshownews.com



Business Wire Information

Contact Us
UK Tax Strategy
Privacy Statement
Manage Cookies
Terms of Use
© 2023 Business Wire







	            Internet Explorer presents a security risk. To ensure the most secure and best overall experience on our website we recommend the latest versions of 
	            Chrome, 
                Edge, 
                Firefox, or 
                Safari.  Internet Explorer will not be supported as of August 17, 2021.	             
	        

                Internet Explorer is no longer supported. To ensure the most secure and best overall experience on our website, we recommend the latest versions of              
	            Chrome, 
	            Edge, 
	            Firefox, or 
	            Safari.
	        







