
























OTCQB: AVAIArtificial Intelligence Made AccessibleNameEmailFind Out MoreThank you! Your form has been successfully submitted."Our Mission is to revolutionize the next generation of supercomputing infrastructure to deliver the fastest and most cost-effective deployment for the development of advanced machine learning models."Avant to Bring Cost-Effective Compute Power to AIAI R&D is being squeezed out by over-priced, cloud-based services.For every 1% increase in precision, 500X more compute power is required.Avant has the solution!Explore Private Cloud InfrastructureDeveloping the Nation's First AI Supercomputing NetworkAvant is leveraging state-of-the-art supercomputing technologies with seamless communication and interaction among all compute, storage, and networking resources; Avant's distributed supercomputer will empower AI software companies with unprecedented capabilities - enabling them to push the boundaries of AI development and deployment.Avant's 'edge-native' approach doesn't rely on cloud-based services or remote servers. They offer client companies significant advantages over the more familiar 'cloud-native' approach:* Reduced latency* Improved security & privacy* Increased scalability* Reduced costsWhat We're Working OnAvant! AI™Avant! AI™ is a highly sophisticated machine learning and deep learning AI platform that has been continuously in development and improving since 2018.AI Solutions For Your BusinessGet total control over your data with customized tools to accelerate your business.Tailored to Big Data AnalyticsUsing our Signature Platform technology, Avant can service clients of any size. From individuals to small  and large corporations, including financial institutions, and healthcare providers.Unlock Data Insights FasterAvant learns from every user interaction to continuously improve the AI system’s responses. Its machine learning algorithms analyze and  identify patterns in order to improve response accuracy.The MarketLike Nvidia, Avant Technologies focuses on the 'picks and shovels'  of AI.  Providing access to cost effective compute power and a robust AI platform puts Avant at the heart of 'new approach' AI solutionsWhen chip manufacturers are overvalued, look for service providers that are undervaluedPrice point and market capitalization make the Avant story very compellingWith market projections expected to hit $390 billion by 2025, the early service providers are the clear choiceAvantTechnologies.comUnlock Your Limits with Avant Technologies IncStart Your AI Journey Now IMPORTANT NOTICE AND DISCLAIMERThis article is a paid advertisement. Traktor Beam Media Strategies Inc and its owners, managers, employees, and assigns (collectively “the Publisher”) is often paid by profiled companies or third parties to organize marketing campaigns, which include the creation and dissemination of these types of communications. In this case, in an effort to enhance public awareness of Avant Technologies Inc.(“AVANT”) and its securities, AVANT has provided the Publisher with a budget of  US$5,000 to cover the costs associated with creating and distribution of this communication.  The budget may be increased at the discretion of the company. The Publisher may retain any excess sums after expenses as its compensation. This compensation should be viewed as a major conflict with our ability to be unbiased. Readers should beware that third parties, profiled companies, and/or their affiliates may liquidate shares of the profiled companies at anytime, including at or near the time you receive this communication, which has the potential to hurt share prices. Frequently companies profiled in our articles experience a large increase in volume and share price during the course of investor awareness marketing, which often ends as soon as the investor awareness marketing ceases. The investor awareness marketing may be as brief as one day, after which a large decrease in volume and share price may likely occur. This communication is not, and should not be construed to be, an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. Neither this communication nor the Publisher purport to provide a complete analysis of any company or its financial position. The Publisher is not, and does not purport to be, a broker-dealer or registered investment adviser. This communication is not, and should not be construed to be, personalized investment advice directed to or appropriate for any potential investor. Any investment should be made only after consulting a professional investment advisor and only after reviewing the financial statements and other pertinent corporate information about the company. Further, readers are advised to read and carefully consider the Risk Factors identified and discussed in the advertised company’s SEC, SEDAR and/or other government filings. Investing in securities, particularly microcap securities, is speculative and carries a high degree of risk. Past performance does not guarantee future results. This communication is based on information generally available to the public and on interviews with company management, and does not (to the Publisher’s knowledge, as confirmed by AVANT) contain any material, non-public information. The information on which it is based is believed to be reliable. Nevertheless, the Publisher cannot guarantee the accuracy or completeness of the information.SHARE OWNERSHIP:      The Publisher does not own any shares of any profiled company AVANT and has no information concerning share ownership by others of in the profiled company AVANT.  The Publisher cautions readers to beware that third parties, profiled companies, and/or their affiliates may liquidate shares of the profiled companies at any time, including at or near the time you read the articles on this website and this has the potential to hurt share prices. Frequently companies profiled in such articles experience a large increase in volume and share price during the course of investor awareness marketing, which often ends as soon as the investor awareness marketing ceases.FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS:     This publication contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding expected continual growth of the featured companies and/or industry. The Publisher notes that statements contained herein that look forward in time, which include everything other than historical information, involve risks and uncertainties that may affect the companies’ actual results of operations. Wherever possible, words such as “predicts”, “projects”, “targets”, “plans”, “expects”, “does not expect”, “budget”, “scheduled”, “estimates”, “forecasts”, “anticipate” or “does not anticipate”, “believe”, “intend” and similar expressions or statements that certain actions, events or results “may”, “could”, “would”, “might” or “will” be taken, occur or be achieved, or the negative or grammatical variation thereof or other variations thereof, or comparable terminology have been used to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements relating to: (a) revenue generating potential with respect to AVANT industry; (b) market opportunity; (c) AVANT business plans and strategies; (d)services that AVANT intends to offer; (e) AVANT milestone projections and targets; (f) AVANT expectations regarding receipt of approval for regulatory applications; (g) AVANT intentions to expand into other jurisdictions including the timeline expectations relating to those expansion plans; and (h) AVANT expectations with regarding its ability to deliver shareholder value. Forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance and are based upon a number of estimates and assumptions of management in light of management’s experience and perception of trends, current conditions and expected developments, as well as other factors that management believes to be relevant and reasonable in the circumstances, as of the date of this document including, without limitation, assumptions about: (a) the ability to raise any necessary additional capital on reasonable terms to execute AVANT business plan; (b) that general business and economic conditions will not change in a material adverse manner; (c) AVANT ability to procure equipment and operating supplies in sufficient quantities and on a timely basis; (d) AVANT ability to enter into contractual arrangements; (e) the accuracy of budgeted costs and expenditures; (f) AVANT ability to attract and retain skilled personnel; (g) political and regulatory stability; (h) the receipt of governmental, regulatory and third-party approvals, licenses and permits on favorable terms; (i) changes in applicable legislation; (j) stability in financial and capital markets; and (k) expectations regarding the level of disruption as a result of COVID-19.Such forward-looking information involves a variety of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual plans, intentions, activities, results, performance or achievements of AVANT to be materially different from any future plans, intentions, activities, results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks include, without limitation: (a) AVANT operations could be adversely affected by possible future government legislation, policies and controls or by changes inapplicable laws and regulations; (b) public health crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic may adversely impact AVANT business; (c) the volatility of global capital markets;(d) political instability and changes to the regulations governing AVANT business operations (e) AVANT may be unable to implement its growth strategy; and (f) increased competition. Except as required by law, the Website Host undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future event or otherwise.INDEMNIFICATION / RELEASE OF LIABILITY:     By reading this communication, you acknowledge that you have read and understand this disclaimer, and further that to the greatest extent permitted under law, you release the Publisher, its affiliates, assigns and successors from any and all liability, damages, and injury from this communication. You further warrant that you are solely responsible for any financial outcome that may come from your investment decisions.INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY:     Traktor Beam Media Strategies Inc. is the Publisher’s trademark. All other trademarks used in this communication are the property of their respective trademark holders. The Publisher is not affiliated, connected, or associated with, and is not sponsored, approved, or originated by, the trademark holders unless otherwise stated. No claim is made by the Publisher to any rights in any third-party trademarks.IMPORTANT NOTICE AND DISCLAIMER:     This website is owned and hosted by Traktor Beam Media Strategies Inc. Articles appearing on this website should be considered paid advertisements. Market Tactic Media Ltd. and its owners, managers, employees, and assigns (collectively “the Website Host”) is often paid by marketing companies to host websites on which articles profiling public companies are published. The Website Host has not been compensated by any of the profiled companies. The Website Host’s compensation for articles appearing on this website is $5000 while the advertisement campaign is active.SHARE OWNERSHIP:     The Website Host does not own any shares of any profiled Avant Technologies Inc. and has no information concerning share ownership by others of any profiled companies and The Website Host cautions readers to beware that third parties, profiled companies, and/or their affiliates may liquidate shares of the profiled companies at any time, including at or near the time you read the articles on this website and this has the potential to hurt share prices. Frequently companies profiled in such articles experience a large increase in volume and share price during the course of investor awareness marketing, which often ends as soon as the investor awareness marketing ceases.NO SECURITIES OFFERED:     The articles on this website are not, and should not be construed to be, offers to sell or solicitations of an offer to buy any security. Neither the articles on this website nor the Website Host purport to provide a complete analysis of any Avant Technologies Inc.or its financial position. The Website Host is not, and does not purport to be, a broker-dealer or registered investment adviser. The articles on this website are not, and should not be construed to be, personalized investment advice directed to or appropriate for any particular investor. Any investment should be made only after consulting a professional investment advisor and only after reviewing the financial statements and other pertinent corporate information about the Pedro’s List.  Further, readers are advised to read and carefully consider the Risk Factors identified and discussed in the profiled Pedro’s List’s SEC and/or other government filings. Investing in securities, particularly micro-cap securities, is speculative and carries a high degree of risk.INDEMNIFICATION / RELEASE OF LIABILITY:     By reading articles on this website, you acknowledge that you have read and understood this disclaimer, and further that to the greatest extent permitted under law, you release the Website Host, its affiliates, assigns and successors from any and all liability, damages, and injury from articles appearing on this website. You further warrant that you are solely responsible for any financial outcome that may come from your investment decisions.LINKS TO THIRD PARTY WEBSITES:     This website enables users to link to external websites not under the control of The Website Host. The Website Host has no control over the nature, content, and availability of those sites. The inclusion of any links is not intended as, and should not be construed as, a recommendation or endorsement of the content or views expressed on such external websites. The Website Host expressly disclaims any representation concerning the quality, safety, suitability, or reliability of any external websites and the content and materials contained in them. It is important for users to take necessary precautions, especially to ensure appropriate safety.FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION:     This document contains forward-looking information and forward-looking statements, within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation, (collectively, “forward-looking statements”), which reflect expectations regarding Avant Technologies Inc.future growth, future business plans and opportunities, expected activities, and other statements about future events, results or performance. Wherever possible, words such as “predicts”, “projects”, “targets”, “plans”, “expects”, “does not expect”, “budget”, “scheduled”, “estimates”, “forecasts”, “anticipate” or “does not anticipate”, “believe”, “intend” and similar expressions or statements that certain actions, events or results “may”, “could”, “would”, “might” or “will” be taken, occur or be achieved, or the negative or grammatical variation therefore other variations thereof, or comparable terminology have been used to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements relating to: (a) revenue generating potential with respect to Avant Technologies Inc. industry; (b) market opportunity; (c) Avant Technologies Inc. business plans and strategies;(d) services that Avant Technologies Inc. intends to offer; (e) Avant Technologies Inc. milestone projections and targets; (f) Avant Technologies Inc. expectations regarding receipt of approval for regulatory applications; (g) Avant Technologies Inc. intentions to expand into other jurisdictions including the timeline expectations relating to those expansion plans; and (h) Avant Technologies Inc. expectations with regarding its ability to deliver shareholder value. Forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance and are based upon a number of estimates and assumptions of management inflight of management’s experience and perception of trends, current conditions and expected developments, as well as other factors that management believes to be relevant and reasonable in the circumstances, as of the date of this document including, without limitation, assumptions about: (a) the ability to raise any necessary additional capital on reasonable terms to execute Avant Technologies Inc. business plan; (b) that general business and economic conditions will not change in a material adverse manner; (c) Avant Technologies Inc. ability to procure equipment and operating supplies in sufficient quantities and on a timely basis; (d) Avant Technologies Inc. ability to enter into contractual arrangements; (e) the accuracy of budgeted costs and expenditures; (f) Avant Technologies Inc. ability to attract and retains skilled personnel; (g) political and regulatory stability; (h)the receipt of governmental, regulatory and third-party approvals, licenses and permits on favorable terms; (i)changes in applicable legislation; (j) stability in financial and capital markets; and (k) expectations regarding the level of disruption as a result of COVID-19. Such forward-looking information involves a variety of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual plans, intentions, activities, results, performance or achievements of Avant Technologies Inc.to be materially different from any future plans, intentions, activities, results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks include, without limitation: (a) Avant Technologies Inc. operations could be adversely affected by possible future government legislation, policies and controls or by changes in applicable laws and regulations; (b) public health crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic may adversely impact Avant Technologies Inc. business; (c) the volatility of global capital markets; (d) political instability and changes to the regulations governing Avant Technologies Inc .business operations (e) Avant Technologies Inc. may be unable to implement its growth strategy; and (f) increased competition. Except as required by law, the Website Host undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future event or otherwise.HISTORICAL INFORMATION:     Any graphs, tables or other information demonstrating the historical performance or current or historical attributes of Avant Technologies Inc. or any other entity contained in this document are intended only to illustrate historical performance or current or historical attributes of Avant Technologies Inc. or such entities and are not necessarily indicative of future performance of Avant Technologies Inc. or such entities.





