IDF: No Northern Infiltration to Israel Detected Despite Alarm; Netanyahu, Gantz Form Emergency Government - Israel News - Haaretz.com SearchHaaretz - back to home pageLOG INSUBSCRIBE NOWSUBSCRIBE NOW accessibilityOpen menuIn the NewsIsrael-Hamas War Live UpdatesHezbollahGaza InvasionNetanyahuHamas - IsraelLebanon Hamas HostagesAntisemitismIsraelis DeadHaaretz | Israel NewsGaza War Day 6: | IDF: No Northern Infiltration to Israel Detected Despite Alarm; Netanyahu, Gantz Form Emergency GovernmentOct 11, 2023Share in Twitter   SaveSave article to reading listSend in e-mailSend in e-mail Share in Facebook Share in Twitter Share in WhatsApp Send in e-mailSend in e-mail   SaveSave article to reading list Zen ReadPrint article next previous 15 of 15 | Flowers and candles are placed outside the Israeli embassy in Stockholm, Sweden, on October 11, 2023.  TT News Agency/Christine Olsson via REUTERS      ATTENTION EDITORS - THIS IMAGE WAS PROVIDED BY A THIRD PARTY. SWEDEN OUT. NO COMMERCIAL OR EDITORIAL SALES IN SWEDEN.Credit:   TT NEWS AGENCY/ REUTERS1 of 15 | Flares, fired from the Israeli side, burn in the sky as seen from Ramyah near the Lebanese-Israeli border, in southern Lebanon, October 11, 2023. REUTERS/Thaier Al-SudaniCredit:   THAIER AL-SUDANI/ REUTERS2 of 15 | TOPSHOT - An Israeli army self-propelled howitzer fires rounds near the border with Gaza in southern Israel on October 11, 2023. Israel declared war on Hamas on October 8 following a shock land, air, and sea assault by the Gaza-based militant group. The death toll in Israel has surged above 1,200 following the worst attack in the country's 75-year history, while Gaza officials have reported 1000 people killed so far. (Photo by JACK GUEZ / AFP)Credit: JACK GUEZ - AFPOct 11, 2023At least 1,200 Israelis killed since beginning of the warNetanyahu and Gantz reach agreement to form emergency government Biden: 'I refuse to be silent' on the 'deadliest day for Jews since the Holocaust'IDF: Number of Hamas members who infiltrated Israel indicates attempt to occupy Gaza border communitiesAt least 22 U.S. citizens were killed in Hamas attacks on Israel, State Department says IDF: No infiltration of hostile aircraft from Lebanon despite alarmTop U.S. congressman: Israel received warning from Egypt three days before Hamas attacks; We’re not sure how Israel missed itIsrael, Hezbollah trade fire along northern border ■ At least 1,200 Israelis killed, 2,400 wounded ■ Dozens of foreign nationals killed, kidnapped ■ Palestinians say 950 killed, 5,000 wounded in Israeli airstrikes ■ IDF: Holding 1,500 bodies of militants, calls on Gazans to flee to EgyptAt least 1,200 Israelis killed since beginning of the warNetanyahu and Gantz reach agreement to form emergency government Biden: 'I refuse to be silent' on the 'deadliest day for Jews since the Holocaust'IDF: Number of Hamas members who infiltrated Israel indicates attempt to occupy Gaza border communitiesAt least 22 U.S. citizens were killed in Hamas attacks on Israel, State Department says IDF: No infiltration of hostile aircraft from Lebanon despite alarmTop U.S. congressman: Israel received warning from Egypt three days before Hamas attacks; We’re not sure how Israel missed itUpdatesLast to firstYaniv Kubovich8:10 AMOct 12, 2023IDF Spokesperson: We attacked Hamas commando unit headquarters throughout GazaThe IDF spokesman said Thursday morning that the Air Force attacked headquarters belonging to the Hamas commando unit throughout Gaza throughout the night, and that a senior member of the terrorist organization's naval force was killed in the strikes. According to the announcement, the Hamas commando force ("Nohva") was one of the leaders of the raid on Israeli cities on Saturday, and the headquarters that were attacked were used by his fighters who participated in the attack.It was also reported that in an attack in Rafah, Muhammad Abu Shamla, a senior operative from the Hamas navy, was killed. According to the IDF, Abu Shamla's house was also used to store naval weapons intended for attacks against Israel.Haaretz8:03 AMOct 12, 2023Strikes in Gaza overnight killed 33 people within 2 hoursIDF strikes in the Gaza Strip killed 33 people within two hours overnight on Thursday according to an Al Jazeera correspondent in Gaza.According to the report, fighter jets attacked houses in several areas, and civil defense groups recovered the bodies of the dead.The envoy added that since the fighting began, six neighborhoods in the Gaza Strip had been destroyed.Haaretz7:58 AMOct 12, 2023IDF Spokesman to International Media: Priority is given to attacking senior Hamas membersIDF Spokesperson for International Media Lt. Col. (res.) Jonathan Conricus said today that the IDF "prioritizes attacking Hamas commanders. When we have intelligence indicating the location of a senior commander, we are attacking."He made the remarks in a daily update distributed by the IDF Spokesperson to the foreign media. Conricus added that since Hamas took over the Gaza Strip, it has built "a network of tunnels under Gaza City, which is the center, all the way to Khan Yunis and Rafah.""We are trying to reach the lower layer that Hamas has built for itself," he said. "It is not intended for the entry of civilians, it is not bunkers for Gazan citizens for when Israel attacks, it is for the use of Hamas and other terrorists so that they can continue to fire missiles and send terrorists."Earlier tonight, Conricus was interviewed by ABC, where he told the interviewer that "At the end of the war, Hamas will not have the military capability to kill or harm Israeli civilians again and definitely not to repeat the sights you saw on Kibbutz Be'eri."Referring to the issue of the abductees, he said that this issue "is perhaps the most complex and sensitive that we are dealing with in this nightmare that we have found ourselves in."- Advertisment -Ben Samuels5:27 AMOct 12, 2023Former U.S. President Donald Trump says Israel needs to 'straighten themselves out' following Hamas attackFormer U.S. President Donald Trump on Wednesday sharply criticized Israel for not participating in the assassination of Iranian General Qassem Soleimani, saying Israel needs to “straighten themselves out” following the Hamas attacks.“I’ll never forget that Bibi Netanyahu let us down. That was a very terrible thing, I’ll say that. So when I see sometimes the intelligence - you talk about the intelligence, you talk about the things that went wrong over the last week - they’ve got to straighten it out, because they’re fighting potentially a very big force. They’re fighting potentially Iran, and when they have people saying the wrong things, everything’s being digested by these people because they’re vicious and they’re smart.”“We were disappointed by that, very disappointed,” he said, referring to Netanyahu’s reaction to the Qassem Soleimani assassination.“Bibi tried taking credit for it,” trump said laughing. “That didn’t make me feel too good.”Ben Samuels1:40 AMOct 12, 2023Biden discusses Hamas attacks with UAE President, stressing humanitarian assistance importanceU.S. President Joe Biden and UAE President Mohamed bin Zayed on Wednesday discussed the Hamas attacks on Israel, with the U.S. readout stressing "the importance of ensuring humanitarian assistance reaches those in need."The U.S. said earlier Wednesday it was in active discussions with Israel and Egypt about creating safe passage for Palestinian civilians wishing to flee the fighting in Gaza.Ben Samuels12:42 AMOct 12, 2023The U.S. raised the travel advisory for Israel to "level 3 - reconsider travel.""Terrorist groups, lone-actor terrorists and other violent extremists continue plotting possible attacks in Israel and the West Bank and Gaza. Terrorists and violent extremists may attack with little or no warning, targeting tourist locations, transportation hubs, markets/shopping malls, and local government facilities. Violence can occur in Israel and the West Bank and Gaza without warning. There has been a marked increase in demonstrations throughout Israel, some with little or no warning," the new guidance from the State Department reads.The new guidance comes one day after U.S. Homeland Security Advisor Liz Sherwood-Randall said the Biden administration is working on a number of different options to ensure any U.S. citizen who wants to leave Israel can do so despite the limited capacity on commercial flights departing Ben-Gurion International Airport."Our goal is to ensure that every American citizen who wants to leave Israel has a safe means of doing so," she said, adding "I anticipate we will be able to share this information in the next couple of days that there are a number of means of leaving if you choose to do so – either by air, to an intermediate location when you can then find a flight to come onward to the United States, or via ship or via land – again to an intermediate location where you can access a flight back to the United States."- Advertisment -Eden Solomon12:01 AMOct 12, 2023An alarm notifying the entry of hostile aircraft sounds in southern Israeli community Nahal OzBen Samuels11:43 PMOct 11, 2023Biden: 'I refuse to be silent' on the 'deadliest day for Jews since the Holocaust'Speaking to American Jewish leaders Wednesday night, President Joe Biden decried Hamas' attack on Israel as the "deadliest day for Jews since the Holocaust," and "one of the worst chapters in human history.""I refuse to be silent and I know you refuse to be silent as well," he said to a round of applause.On the issue of hostages, Biden said that he has "not given up hope of bringing these folks home.""We want to make it real clear," he said. "We're working on every aspect of the hostage crisis in Israel, including deploying experts to advise and assist with recovery efforts."Yaniv Kubovich11:36 PMOct 11, 2023The Israeli army announces resumed attacks on Hamas targets in Gaza- Advertisment -Jonathan Lis11:05 PMOct 11, 2023Gantz: Standing here shoulder to shoulder sends clear message to adversaries, Israeli citizensBenny Gantz, who joined an emergency government with Netanyahu, stated on Wednesday that his cooperation with the government is "a clear message to our adversaries and to all Israeli citizens: all of us together are mobilizing." Gantz said after the Security Cabinet meeting in which he participated, "Just as people from left and right, from the city and the village, go out to fight, decisions of the government will also be made by people from different camps. Now, we are all one camp - the camp of the people of Israel."Jonathan Lis10:57 PMOct 11, 2023Defense Minister Gallant: This was barbarism we haven't experienced since the Holocaust; We will wipe Hamas off the face of the earthJonathan Lis10:55 PMOct 11, 2023Netanyahu says alongside Gantz: 'We put all other considerations aside, as the fate of our country hangs in the balance'Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu delivered a statement on Wednesday after the Security Cabinet meeting and the formation of the emergency government with the National Unity party, stating that he responded to Benny Gantz's offer because "the fate of the country is at stake." Netanyahu added that "unity among the people in moments of grief and sorrow resonates worldwide. Hamas is like ISIS; we will crush and eliminate them just as they did with ISIS."Haaretz10:54 PMOct 11, 2023Announcing emergency gov't, Netanyahu says 'we put aside all differences' to fight an enemy worse than ISISReuters10:54 PMOct 11, 2023Saudi Crown Prince: Kingdom making 'unremitting efforts' to stop ongoing escalationReuters10:24 PMOct 11, 2023Turkey holding negotiations over civilians held by Hamas. says senior Turkish officialTurkey is carrying out negotiations regarding civilians held by the Palestinian Hamas militant group after its attack on Israel on the weekend, a senior Turkish official said on Wednesday, as Ankara ramped up efforts and diplomacy to mediate the conflict.The official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the talks were being carried out by Turkey's relevant institutions upon orders by President Tayyip Erdogan, but provided no further details.Haaretz9:49 PMOct 11, 2023RECAP: Sirens blare across Israel as Netanyahu and Gantz form emergency governmentIsrael's war against Hamas in the Gaza Strip continued for its fifth day on Wednesday after the initial onslaught by Hamas terrorists massacring over 1,200 people and wounding 3,192 in Israel's south. The IDF announced that the number of Israeli soldiers killed has risen to 189 and that they have informed the families of 60 captives of their situation.The Israeli army has been striking Hamas positions in the Strip throughout the day as rockets fired from Gaza reached cities throughout Israel's south and center, including Tel Aviv.In a briefing with military correspondents, Air Force Brig. Gen. Omer Tishler said that the IDF has been attacking Gaza on an unprecedented level. "We're attacking in a way that the Gaza Strip has never experienced because this is an unprecedented event." He added that Hamas' method of hiding its members among civilians is "no longer acceptable."Tishler also said that the Hamas invasion that surprised Israel will be investigated, stressing that "As an army, we're all responsible for not preventing this criminality. We are all responsible and I'm responsible."The U.S. State Department announced that 22 of its citizens were killed in Hamas attacks on Israel. Additionally, John Kirby, the White House National Security spokesperson, stated that the United States is currently engaged in discussions with Qatar to work towards the release of captives and hostages in Gaza.In the north, Hezbollah claimed responsibility for firing an anti-tank missile at an IDF position, leading Israel to respond by striking targets in Lebanon.Around 12 P.M., the Palestinian Health Ministry in Gaza reported that they've counted 1,055 dead and 5,184 wounded. At around 3 P.M. the Palestinian Quds news agency reported that the Strip's power plant has run out of fuel leaving its residents with no electricity.After being delayed for a day, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and opposition lawmaker Benny Gantz met and agreed to form an emergency government and wartime cabinet.According to a source in Netanyahu's Likud party, it was agreed that Netanyahu, Defense Minister Gallant, and Gantz will be part of the war cabinet. Gadi Eisenkot, a member of Gantz's party and ex-IDF Chief of Staff, alongside Strategic Affairs Minister Ron Dermer, will serve as observers.Israeli forces also continued battling terrorists that infiltrated and remained in the country. Near kibbutz Zikim, IDF soldiers killed three terrorists.In the West Bank, three Palestinians were killed and eight more were wounded from shooting in the village of Qusra in the West Bank. According to the Red Crescent and the Palestinian Health Ministry, they were shot by Israeli settlers who entered the village. Video of the incident shows masked men firing in the village.At around 6 P.M. sirens were heard throughout Israel's north due to the suspected infiltration of hostile aircraft. The IDF initially stated that there is a suspected aerial intrusion from Lebanese territory and later confirmed that there was no infiltration.Haaretz9:19 PMOct 11, 2023'You've ruined our country:' Citizens confront Israeli minister during hospital visitIsrael's Environment Minister, Idit Silman (Likud), departed a hospital following an encounter with citizens, including hospital personnel, who voiced grievances related to the ongoing conflict. One employee told her, "You were once good, but now you've now ruined our country. Leave, go!" Another individual added, "It's our turn to stand together – left and right – and help without you. You've destroyed our country. Leave!"Reuters9:02 PMOct 11, 2023Erdogan calls Israeli response to Hamas in Gaza a 'massacre'Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan on Wednesday said Israel's blockade and bombing of Gaza in response to Palestinian militant group Hamas' attack was a disproportionate response amounting to a "massacre," but repeated Ankara's offer to mediate.Erdogan, speaking to his ruling AK Party in parliament, said even war has a "morality" but the flare-up since the weekend "very severely" violated that."Preventing people meeting their most fundamental needs and bombing housing where civilians live - in short, conducting a conflict using every sort of shameful method - is not a war, it's a massacre," he said, referring to Israel cutting off electricity and water to Gaza and destroying infrastructure.Ankara does not view Hamas as a terrorist organization.Ben Samuels8:59 PMOct 11, 2023U.S. engages in talks with Qatar on captive and hostage release efforts, White House says Open gallery viewU.S. White House National Security Council Strategic Communications Coordinator John Kirby takes questions on the situation in Israel as he joins White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre for the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington, Wednesday.Credit:   JONATHAN ERNST/ REUTERSJohn Kirby, the White House National Security spokesperson, stated that the United States is currently engaged in discussions with Qatar to work towards the release of captives and hostages in Gaza."Obviously, we're in discussions not only with the Israelis, about what hostage recovery could look like, but with other allies and partners in the region. And there are some countries like Qatar that have open lines of communication with Hamas, so of course, we're casting the net wide as you would expect, we want to get these all the hostages back with their families, particularly the American hostages, no question about that."Ran Shimoni8:49 PMOct 11, 2023Hundreds of Israeli anti-Arab org members search for terrorists at hospital, harass and spit at medical teamsHundreds of far-right, anti-Arab La Familia members arrived at the Sheba Medical Center on Wednesday evening after rumors spread that terrorists were hospitalized there. They were seen wandering through the facility, harassing and spitting at medical staff. The hospital had already informed the police in the afternoon about the organization's intention to come to the place. There are no terrorists hospitalized at the hospital.Ben Samuels8:42 PMOct 11, 2023House Republicans nominate Rep. Steve Scalise to replace Kevin McCarthy as House speakerHouse Republicans nominated Rep. Steve Scalise to replace Kevin McCarthy as House speaker. He must still win a majority vote from the full House, including Democrats, before he can become speaker.Scalise said earlier today that his first order of business as speaker would be to "bring a strong resolution expressing support for Israel."392 House lawmakers on Wednesday introduced a landmark bipartisan resolution giving Israel full backing against Hamas, avowing full commitment to military aid while also calling for the full enforcement of Iran sanctions.The urgency to put a new House speaker in place has been increasingly urgent, considering the House anticipated face intense difficulties moving forward a supplemental military aid package without a speaker in place.Ben Samuels8:41 PMOct 11, 2023Several U.S. citizens are being held hostage in Gaza; at least 17 Americans remain unaccounted for, White House saysSeveral U.S. citizens are being held hostage by Hamas in Gaza following the attacks in Israel, National Security Council spokesperson John Kirby said."We know that a number of those Americans are being held hostage right now by Hamas. I think we all need to steel ourselves for the very distinct possibility that these numbers will keep increasing, and that we may in fact, find out that more Americans are part of the hostage pool," he said.At least 17 Americans in Israel remain unaccounted for following the Hamas attacks, with both that total as well as the confirmed 22 dead expected to rise, said White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre."I know many of us in the room and at home are moms and dads — and regardless, we're all humans. We have heard stories of parents doing their best to shield their babies from danger. These reports are devastating. We're hearing the reports of entire families, innocents who were killed in the safety of their homes," she said."Civilians are protected under the laws of armed conflict of armed conflict, and they should be given every opportunity to avoid the fighting," Kirby added. "Let me just say right up front, we're actively discussing this with our Israeli and our Egyptian counterparts we support safe passage for civilians. Civilians are not to blame for what Hamas has done. They didn't do anything wrong. And we continue to support safe patches. I don't have an announcement to make today. I can't tell you a specific route or a corridor. I just want to make it clear that we are actively working on this with our Egyptian and our Israeli counterparts," he said. Kirby added: "We obviously recognize that there's been complicit with the Iranians because of the long-standing support for Hamas. Hamas wouldn't have been able to function at all, had it not been for propping up by the Iranian regime. But we hadn't seen any specific evidence that tells us they were waiting, involved in the planning or involved in the resourcing and in the training that went into this very complex set of attacks over the weekend."Yaniv Kubovich8:40 PMOct 11, 2023IDF: 189 Israeli soldiers killed; families of 60 captives have been updatedHaaretz8:06 PMOct 11, 2023Zelenskyy says he recalls the early days of Russia’s full-scale war on Ukraine amid Hamas attacks Reuters8:02 PMOct 11, 2023NATO chief says he expects Israel to respond proportionately; UN chief says spillover of conflict must be avoidedNATO's Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said on Wednesday that while Israel has the right to defend itself against attacks, he expects the response to Hamas' weekend assault to be proportionate."I expect that of course when we see Israel responses it will be proportionate, and it is important as this conflict continues to do whatever is possible to prevent the loss of innocent civilian lives," he told reporters.United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres said on Wednesday that a spillover of the conflict in Israel must be avoided and that he is concerned about reported attacks on Israel from southern Lebanon."I appeal to all parties, and those who have an influence over those parties, to avoid any further escalation and spillover," he told reporters.Haaretz8:00 PMOct 11, 2023IDF: False alarm on Home Front app that called on Israelis countrywide to enter shelterAdi Hashmonai7:57 PMOct 11, 2023IDF: No infiltration of hostile aircraft from Lebanon  Haaretz Zoom Events7:56 PMOct 11, 2023STARTING NOW: Join an emergency briefing with Haaretz's editor in chief on the Israel-Gaza war Open gallery viewCredit: brifbrif.pngHaaretz subscribers are invited to join an emergency Zoom briefing with Haaretz editor in chief Aluf Benn and Haaretz English editor in chief Esther Solomon on the Israel-Gaza War.Wednesday, Oct 11, 8pm Israel time / 6pm London / 1pm EasternREGISTER NOWHaaretz7:55 PMOct 11, 2023Alarms sound off in central IsraelLiam Hoare 7:53 PMOct 11, 2023Hundreds rally in solidarity with Israel outside European Parliament in Belgium Open gallery viewHundreds rally in solidarity with Israel outside European Parliament, Belgium, Wednesday.Credit: Liam HoareBRUSSELS, Belgium — What was supposed to be the kick-off for the launch of a new pan-European democracy movement morphed, given the circumstances, into an emergency rally and appeal to European leaders to save Israeli hostages taken by Hamas since the start of their invasion. The rally—several hundred strong—was held this afternoon on a square outside the European Parliament, attended by MEPs, supporters of Israel, and members of the local Jewish and Israeli expat communities. Signs read “Free the hostages” and “Hamas = ISIS.” The square was secured by a large, visible police presence.One of the speakers, Shira Havron, had been on vacation in London when she found out that 11 of her family members from Kibbutz Be’eri had gone missing. After 96 hours, a mobile phone signal alerted her to the fact that they were in Gaza. Her abducted relatives come from three generations of her family and include her grandparents who survived the Holocaust and become founder members of the kibbutz. Noting that her relatives include German, Austrian, and Italian passport holders, she appealed to European lawmakers to take responsibility for their citizens and get them back alive.Haaretz7:47 PMOct 11, 2023Home Front app calls on Israelis countrywide to enter shelter, despite no alarms sounding offReuters7:44 PMOct 11, 2023Poland to cancel polling station in Israel for Sunday's election, ministry says Poland plans to cancel voting in Tel Aviv for Oct. 15 parliamentary elections due to ongoing fighting between Israel and Hamas, the Polish foreign ministry said on Wednesday."For the safety of our citizens, taking into account the fact that the State of Israel is in a state of war and the consequences resulting from threats and restrictions on gatherings in force... it was necessary to recognize these risks and respond to them adequately," it said in a statement following publication of a draft amendment to the voting district regulation on the government's legislative website.Foreign Minister Zbigniew Rau said earlier this week that 1,145 Polish citizens had registered to vote in Israel."Unfortunately... voting on the territory of Israel will not take place. It will be possible to vote in Poland and in other countries where voting will take place," foreign ministry spokesman Lukasz Jasina told Reuters.Ben Samuels7:32 PMOct 11, 2023At least 22 U.S. citizens were killed in Hamas attacks on Israel, State Department says Yaniv Kubovich7:30 PMOct 11, 2023IDF: No rocket impacts from Lebanese territory identified; A rocket launch from Gaza detected in northern coastal region's alarmThe IDF stated that no rocket impacts from Lebanese territory have been identified, as forces are scanning both on land and in the air. Regarding the sirens in the Carmel region, a rocket launch from the Gaza Strip has been detected.Ido Efrati7:23 PMOct 11, 2023Israeli Health Ministry: 3,192 injured individuals have been received at hospitals, 443 still hospitilizedBen Samuels7:17 PMOct 11, 2023Biden speaks to Netanyahu, says Hamas attacks 'brought to the surface painful memories and scars left by a millennia of antisemitism'U.S. President Joe Biden spoke at the White House on Wednesday, saying that he spoke to Israeli PM Netanyahu in the morning. "We continue to monitor the situation in Israel very closely," Biden said, adding that he will be speaking about the situation in Israel during a meeting with Jewish American leaders.Biden reiterated some of the messages from his speech the day prior: "This attack is brought to the surface painful memories and scars left by a millennia of antisemitism and genocide against the Jewish people." At this moment we have to be crystal clear. There is no justification for terrorism. No excuse. The type of terrorism exhibited here is just beyond the pale, beyond the pale.""As I said yesterday, my commitment Israel security and the safety of the Jewish people is unshakable. The United States has Israel's back and we're going to be working on this all through the day and beyond," he added.Michael Hauser Tov7:12 PMOct 11, 2023Security Cabinet meeting commences, Gantz and Eisenkot participate The Security Cabinet has convened, with the participation of Benny Gantz, and Gadi Eisenkot serving as an overseer, as part of the agreement between Gantz and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to form an emergency government. MKs Gideon Sa'ar, Chili Tropper, and Yifat Shasha-Bito from Gantz's party have also joined the cabinet and will attend the meeting.Adi Hashmonai7:11 PMOct 11, 2023A rocket impact was identified in an open area in northern Israel's coastal regionThe Hof HaCarmel Regional Council has reported a rocket impact in an open area in northern Israel's coastal region. According to the council's statement, there are no casualties and no damage, and residents in communities are advised to remain in protected areas.Adi Hashmonai7:05 PMOct 11, 2023Residents in Israel's north ordered immediately into shelter after possible infiltration to city near Lebanese borderThe Home Front Command has announced that residents of the Haifa region, the Galilee, and the Golan should seek shelter in a protected area until further notice, locking their doors and windows, and preparing for an extended stay. In addition, an alert has been issued due to concerns of infiltrators in Ma'alot Tarshiha.According to the Home Front Command, these instructions follow a "widespread attack" that occurred in the north a short while ago. The directive advises residents to enter the shelter with provisions, water, bedding, blankets, medications, and communication devices.Haaretz7:01 PMOct 11, 2023King Charles speaks with Herzog, condemns 'criminal and barbaric actions' of HamasKing Charles III of the United Kingdom called President Isaac Herzog on Wednesday to offer deepest condolences to the citizens of Israel his condolences and deep shock at the criminal and barbaric actions of the terrorist organization Hamas in its attack on the citizens of Israel," a statement from Herzog's office said.Herzog thanked the king for his support and said his words were "of great comfort to the people of Israel and the entire Jewish people. The two talked at length about the terrible massacre and how it was carried out."The statement said Herzog has been holding daily conversations with leaders worldwide, "including leaders of international organizations, and Jewish community leaders."Adi Hashmonai6:59 PMOct 11, 2023Home Front Command: Residents of communities on Lebanese, Syrian borders must enter shelters, lock their doors and windowsAdi Hashmonai6:39 PMOct 11, 2023Hamas claims to have fired long-range missile to Haifa areaSirens were activated in the Carmel region following rocket fire, with Hamas claiming responsibility for the attack. Additionally, an alert was issued in Kibbutz Ma'ayan Baruch in the Upper Galilee due to concerns of infiltrators. Israeli Emergency Services reported no calls about casualties or injuries in the northern area.Adi Hashmonai6:35 PMOct 11, 2023Alarms sound in all of Israel's north, warnings of terrorist infiltrators in communities on Israeli-Lebanese borderBen Samuels6:24 PMOct 11, 2023Bernie Sanders decries 'horrific short- and long-term consequences' on both sides from Hamas' attacks on IsraelSen. Bernie Sanders, perhaps the greatest advocate for Palestinian rights in the history of the U.S. Congress, decried the "horrific short- and long-term consequences" of Hamas' attacks on Israel."As a result of this attack, thousands of Israelis and Palestinians – including many women and children – have been killed and injured. That toll will rise. The gunning down of young Israelis at a music festival is an image the world will not soon forget," said the Vermont senator."Longer term, this attack is a major setback for any hope of peace and reconciliation in the region – and justice for the Palestinian people. For years, people of good will throughout the world, including some brave Israelis, have struggled against the blockade of Gaza, the daily humiliations of occupation in the West Bank, and the horrendous living conditions faced by so many Palestinians," he continued.Sanders noted that "for many, it is no secret that Gaza has been an open-air prison, with millions of people struggling to secure basic necessities. Hamas’ terrorism will make it much more difficult to address that tragic reality and will embolden extremists on both sides, continuing the cycle of violence.""Right now, the international community must focus on reducing humanitarian suffering and protecting innocent people on both sides of this conflict. The targeting of civilians is a war crime, no matter who does it. Israel’s blanket denial of food, water, and other necessities to Gaza is a serious violation of international law and will do nothing but harm innocent civilians," Sanders continued.Adi Hashmonai6:20 PMOct 11, 2023Suspected infiltration of hostile aircrafts from Lebanon spike alarms across all northern IsraelSirens were heard throughout the Golan Heights and the Galilee due to the infiltration of hostile aircraft, including in the northern Israeli cities of Nahariya, Acre, Safed, Tiberias, and Kiryat Shmona. The IDF stated that there is a suspected aerial intrusion from Lebanese territory.Ben Samuels6:18 PMOct 11, 2023Top U.S. congressman: Israel received warning from Egypt three days before Hamas attacks; We’re not sure how Israel missed it Open gallery viewChairman Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Texas, in March.Credit: Andrew Harnik /AP Israel received warnings from Egypt about potential violence three days before the Hamas attacks, said Rep. Michael McCaul, the chair of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.“We know that Egypt has warned the Israelis three days prior that an event like this could happen,” McCaul told reporters after a closed-door briefing with Biden administration officials.“I don’t want to get too much into classified, but a warning was given,” he said. “I think the question was at what level.”“We’re not quite sure how we missed it. We’re not quite sure how Israel missed it,” McCaul added.DPA6:15 PMOct 11, 2023Palestinian Red Crescent says Israeli strike hit its headquarters Israel jets bombed the headquarters of the Palestinian Red Crescent in the northern Gaza Strip, the rescue service said on Wednesday. There were no immediate reports of injuries or deaths. The Israeli army said it was checking reports on the incident.Eden Solomon6:07 PMOct 11, 2023Alarms sound in Ashdod, Be'er Sheva, Netivot, and other southern communitiesJonathan Lis6:01 PMOct 11, 2023British foreign secretary tours war-torn Israeli south  Open gallery viewBritish Foreign Secretary James Cleverly and Israeli Foreign Minster Eli Cohen in Ofakim, Wednesday.Credit: Israeli Foreign MinistryBritish Foreign Secretary James Cleverly toured the southern Israeli city of Ofakim which was targated by Hamas terrorists on Saturday. Cleverly arrived in Israel on Wednesday on a solidarity visit. Cleverly spoke with family members of captives and with people who were held hostage for many hours by Hamas terrorists. British citizens were also among the victims, with one killed and 7 missing, including children.Later in the visit, the British minister is scheduled to meet with President Isaac Herzog and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.On Tuesday, Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavský came to Israel, and on Thursday, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken will arrive.Ido Efrati6:00 PMOct 11, 2023Israel's Health Minister: Wounded Hamas terrorists will not be treated in public hospitalsIsraeli Health Minister Moshe Arbel asked Prime Minister Netanyahu to treat terrorists at military and prison hospitals rather than public hospitals."In these dark times, the health system should focus entirely on treating victims of the massacre, the IDF soldiers, and in preparations for what comes next," Arbel wrote. "The job of treating these despicable terrorists in the public healthcare system severely harms these efforts, and that is why I instructed the public healthcare system not to treat them."Reuters5:53 PMOct 11, 2023French PM: several French children likely among hostages held in Gaza Open gallery viewPeople gather during a demonstration in a show of support for Israel Tuesday in Lyon, central France.Credit: Laurent Cipriani /AP Several French children are missing and are likely among the hostages held in Gaza following Saturday's attack by Hamas against Israel, French Prime Minister Elisabeth Borne said on Wednesday."I want to have a special thought for the French victims (in Israel) and for our missing compatriots, whose situation is extremely worrying. Among them, several children, probably kidnapped," she told senators.Borne said 10 French citizens are now confirmed to have been killed in the attacks, and 18 - including children - are missing.The overall number of hostages held in Gaza following Saturday's attack remains unclear.Ben Samuels5:45 PMOct 11, 2023Senate Armed Services Committee urges Biden to transfer two more Iron Dome batteries to IsraelBipartisan members of the Senate Armed Services Committee urged the Biden administration to transfer two additional Iron Dome batteries and other unused military assets to Israel as it continues to face Hamas rocket barrages and a looming escalation with Hezbollah.The batteries in question are currently in U.S. possession and are not in operational use.“Since October 7, Hamas, which Iran directly supplies and funds, has fired thousands of rockets into populated areas across Israel with the intention of killing as many innocent civilians as possible,” wrote Democratic Sens. Jacky Rosen and Kirsten Gillibrand, alongside Republican Sens. Mike Rounds and Rick Scott. “As you know, the United States Army is currently in possession of two Iron Dome batteries that have not been deployed and have no operational use inside the United States where they are currently stored.”“Immediately transferring these two Iron Dome batteries that are not in use to Israel would provide tangible, life-saving and sustained support to our ally as it faces rocket and missile salvos that threaten to overwhelm its defenses,” they continued. “The transfer of these two Iron Dome batteries, in addition to sending other unused military assets, would bolster Israel’s defense capabilities and immediately help Israel combat terrorist aggression.”DPA5:42 PMOct 11, 2023Senior EU officials commemorate victims of Hamas' attack Open gallery viewEuropean Parliament President Roberta Metsola, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, European Council President Charles Michel and Head of the Mission of Israel to the EU and NATO Ambassador Haim Regev attend a solemn moment to remember the people killed in Israel, during the ongoing conflict with Hamas, at the European Parliament, in Brussels, Belgium on Wednesday.  REUTERS/Johanna GeronCredit:  Reuters/Johanna GeronSeveral senior European Union officials on Wednesday held a minute's silence outside the European Parliament in Brussels for the victims of Saturday's terrorist attacks on Israel.Hamas, the militant group that controls Gaza, launched a large-scale attack on Israel, killing at least 1,200 people and kidnapping around 150 others. Retaliatory airstrikes on Gaza left at least 900 dead."The world has witnessed Jews being murdered simply because they were Jewish - again - in Israel," European Parliament President Roberta Metsola said. She stressed that there was no justification for terrorism.European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and European Council President Charles Michel also took part in the commemoration."They abducted young girls and boys. They took elderly Holocaust survivors and dragged them out of their homes. They paraded dead people through the street like trophies," Metsola said."This is terror in its worst form."Earlier on Wednesday, von der Leyen warned of repercussions of the outbreak of violence for the entire region."We will have to work to contain its destabilizing effects, including on the ongoing rapprochement between Israel and its Arab neighbours," she said, addressing fellow EU commissioners and Israel's ambassador to the EU."We will also have to monitor closely Iran's posture, given its long-standing support to Hamas," she added."There can be no justification for Hamas' act of terror. This has nothing to do with the legitimate aspirations of the Palestinian people."Europe stands with Israel and fully supports its right to self-defence, von der Leyen added.Jack Khoury5:33 PMOct 11, 2023Palestinian Health Ministry: Three Palestinians shot dead in West Bank village by Israeli settlersThree Palestinians were killed on Wednesday and eight more were wounded from shooting in the village of Qusra in the West Bank. According to the Red Crescent and the Palestinian Health Ministry, they were shot at by Israeli settlers who entered the village.Video of the incident shows masked men firing in the village. Eden Solomon5:23 PMOct 11, 20233 terrorists killed near kibbutz Zikim in southern Israel 5:13 PMOct 11, 2023Commander of the IDF's Division 99: We have failed our mission to defend the Gaza border communities Brigader General Barak Hiram, Commander of the IDF's Division 99, said on Wednesday that the IDF has failed its mission to defend the Gaza border communities at the beginning of the war. Hiram recieved notice on the rocket launches to the south while he was in his home, and decided to set out to the south. "I didn't even realize that I was going there to help, only during the car ride did I recieve further notices that the event is much more severe," he said. Ido Efrati4:50 PMOct 11, 2023US organization Friends of the MDA sends medical aid to Israel to arrive over the weekendAmerican organization Friends of the Magen David Adom in Israel sent 11 ICU vehicles and 6 ambulances. The aid is due to arrive in Israel over the weekend and help Israel's National Emergency Medical services tend to the injured patients.Haaretz4:36 PMOct 11, 2023Israel's Health Ministry transfers patients from hospitals in northern Israel to hospitals in central Israel Michael Hauser Tov4:23 PMOct 11, 2023Netanyahu and Gantz reach agreement to form emergency government According to a source within Netanyahu's Likud party, an agreement has been reached between Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and the leader of the National Unity party, Benny Gantz, over the formation of an emergency government.The source states that it was agreed that Netanyahu, Defense Minister Gallant, and Gantz will be part of the war cabinet. Gadi Eizenkot, a member of Gantz's party and ex-IDF Chief of Staff, alongside Strategic Affairs Minister Ron Dermer, will serve as observers. The authorities of the regular security cabinet, as stipulated by law, will remain unchanged. Gantz's party will have five ministers in the government without portfolios.Haaretz4:20 PMOct 11, 2023Sirens sound in Tel Aviv and central IsraelReuters4:08 PMOct 11, 2023Egypt discussing plans to provide aid to Gaza under limited ceasefire, according to security sourcesEgypt has discussed plans with the United States and other countries to provide humanitarian aid through its border with the Gaza Strip under a limited ceasefire, two Egyptian security sources said on Wednesday.The aid would pass through the Rafah border crossing between Gaza and Egypt's Sinai Peninsula, the sources said, speaking on condition of anonymity.4:05 PMOct 11, 2023Rocket alarms sound in the southern Israeli cities Ashdod, Ashkelon and in the communities surround the border with Gaza 4:03 PMOct 11, 2023Israeli police announces changes in traffic arrangements and road blockades in southern IsraelReuters4:02 PMOct 11, 2023Putin: United States increases tensions in the region by deploying its Navy Russian President Vladimir Putin accused the United States on Wednesday of sidestepping an established process of settling the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and of trying to take matters into its own hands without resolving the fundamental issues. According to him, the U.S. increases tensions in the region by deploying its navy.Describing the violence in Israel as terrible, Putin said the conflict could not be resolved without addressing issues such as the establishment of a Palestinian state. He added that "It's necessary to minimize civilian losses." He added further that expansion of conflict zone may lead to serious consequences, including in the world energy sector.Ben Samuels3:58 PMOct 11, 2023U.S. Defense Secretary: 'As President Biden has made clear, no other party hostile to Israel should try to exploit these despicable attacks' Open gallery viewU.S. Secretary of Defense, Lloyd Austin, delivers a speech as he hosts the meeting of the Ukraine Security Consultative Group in Germany on TuesdayCredit: Michael Probst /AP WASHINGTON - U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin released a statement affirming American support for Israel "as it defends itself and its citizens from this vile Hamas terrorist assault.""The full horror of the attacks by Hamas continues to become more clear… and more appalling," Austin said adding that "We will stay in close contact with our Israeli partners… and ensure that they have what they need to protect their country." "And as President Biden has made clear, no other party hostile to Israel should try to exploit these despicable attacks. Like any other country, Israel has a bedrock right to defend itself from terrorism and aggression. And our support for Israel's security will remain ironclad… especially in this hour of atrocity and challenge."Reuters3:50 PMOct 11, 2023Turkey's Erdogan calls Israeli response to Hamas in Gaza a 'massacre'Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said on Wednesday that Israel's blockade and bombing of Gaza in retaliation for Palestinian militant group Hamas' attack was a disproportionate response amounting to a "massacre".With Ankara offering to mediate, Erdogan and his foreign minister held calls with regional powers, the United States and others. However, Israel's envoy to Ankara has said it is too early to discuss mediation.Speaking to his ruling AK Party in parliament, Erdogan said even war had a "morality" but the flare-up since the weekend had "very severely" violated that."Preventing people meeting their most fundamental needs and bombing housing where civilians live - in short, conducting a conflict using every sort of shameful method - is not a war, it's a massacre," he said, referring to Israel cutting off electricity and water to Gaza and destroying infrastructure.Turkey, which has backed Palestinians in the past and hosted members of Hamas, has been working to mend ties with Israel after years of animosity. Unlike the European Union and U.S., Ankara does not consider Hamas a terrorist organization.While not openly blaming Israel, Turkey has said the fighting is due to years of injustices against Palestinians and that the only path to peace is the formation of a sovereign Palestinian state in a two-state solution.On Wednesday, Erdogan criticized Israel's "disproportionate" attacks on Gaza as "devoid of any ethical foundation", and called on the world not to "blindly" take one side. Leaving the underlying issue unresolved would lead to new, more violent conflicts, he warned.Jack Khoury, The Associated Press3:43 PMOct 11, 2023Lebanese army: We have detected a rocket dispatch center that was used to fire rockets to IsraelThe Lebanese army announced that its soldiers have detected a dispatch center that was used to fire rockets into northern Israel. The army said that the searches they conducted led them to locate the dispatch center near the village of Al-Kalila. According to the army, an unfired rocket was left inside the dispatch pad, and combat engineers are working to deactivate it. On Tuesday a number of rockets were launched from the area. In parallel, the Lebanese media reported 3 injured civilians, and around 10 houses and a mosque that were damaged from IDF attacks in south Lebanon. Haaretz3:39 PMOct 11, 2023Chief Rabbi of Israel: Continue identifying bodies on Shabbat as wellBen Samuels Washington3:36 PMOct 11, 2023U.S. chargé d’affaires and U.S. defense attaché visit Gaza border communitiesStephanie L. Hallett who currently serves as the Chargé d’Affaires a.i. at the U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem, along with the U.S. Defense attaché Captain Frank Schlereth, visit the Gaza communities affected by the Hamas onslaught.Haaretz3:28 PMOct 11, 2023Rocket sirens blare in Tel Aviv area, central Israel Yaniv Kubovich3:14 PMOct 11, 2023Israel's Cheif of Staff: Even if there are limitations, we are attacking every known location of Hamas leaders Open gallery viewIDF Chief of Staff Herzl Halevi in September.Credit: IDF Spokesperson's UnitIsrael's Cheif of Staff Herzl Halevi said on Wednesday that the IDF has been attacking the Gaza strip with force for a number of days. In a conversation with IDF reservists he said that "We attack every known location of Hamas militants and leaders, even if there are limitations. The IDF operates suitably, it does things in a precise way, but very forceful." Ben Samuels Washington3:13 PMOct 11, 2023Arch of Titus in Rome lit with Israel's colors in show of supportHaaretz3:07 PMOct 11, 2023Alarms sound in Israel's southern kibbutz Yad Mordechai and Netiv Ha'asara Ben Samuels3:06 PMOct 11, 2023Biden and senior White House officials will attend roundtable with Jewish community leaders WASHINGTON - U.S. President Joe Biden will attend a roundtable of Jewish community leaders and spoke of his unwavering support for Israel following the Hamas terrorist attacks and his work on combatting antisemitism. Open gallery viewU.S. President Joe Biden, accompanied by Vice President Kamala Harris and U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, makes remarks about the situation in Israel following Hamas' deadly attacks, from the State Dining Room at the White House in Washington, U.S., Tuesday.Credit:   JONATHAN ERNST/ REUTERSAlso participating at the roundtable are National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, Homeland Security Advisor Dr. Liz Sherwood-Randall, Domestic Policy Advisor Neera Tanden, and Steve Benjamin, Senior Advisor to the President for Public Engagement.Reuters3:00 PMOct 11, 2023German government spokesperson: Government has no valid evidence of Iran's direct involvement in Hamas attack on IsraelHaaretz2:54 PMOct 11, 2023Palestinian news agency Quds: Gaza strip left with no electricity as power plant runs out of fuelMichael Hauser Tov2:46 PMOct 11, 2023Sources from Israel's Likud party: 'There is one person in Israel that is not interested in establishing an emergancy government - Sara Netanyahu' Open gallery viewSara NetanyahuCredit: Hadas Parush/Flash 90A number of sources from the Likud said that Sara Netanyahu, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's wife, is not interested in establishing an emergency government. "There is one person in Israel that is not interested in establishing an emergency government - Sara Netanyahu," the sources said. To this the Likud spokesperson responded on behalf of Sara Netanyahu: "Unity is the order of the hour."Shira Kadari-Ovadia 2:40 PMOct 11, 2023Israel's Education Minister: Education system may resume on Thursday in some of the local districts Israel's Education Minister Yoav Kisch announced on Wednesday that the education system may resume on Thursday in some of the local districts, and that the list of areas will be disclosed at 6:00 P.M. Over the last 4 days, the education system and educational activities across Israel have been halted due to the war with Gaza. Jonathan Lis2:21 PMOct 11, 2023British Foreign Secretary Cleverly will arrive on Wednesday in Israel, U.S. Secretary of State Blinken will arrive on Thursday British Foreign Secretary James Cleverly is due to arrive in Israel on Wednesday to show solidarity, and meet with Israeli President Isaac Herzog, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Israeli Foreign Minister Eli Cohen. On Tuesday Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky visited Israel, and on Thursday U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is due to arrive as well. Aaron Rabinowitz2:19 PMOct 11, 2023Israel's Interior Ministry publishes memorandum to postpone local elections for 3 months  Israel's Interior Ministry published a memorandum to postpone the local elections due to the war. The elections were scheduled to take place on October 31, and the ministry intends to postpone them for 3 months. "Due to the war Israel is facing, and the difficulties of holding elections during this period, we suggest postponing the election day for about 3 months," said Interior Minister Moshe Arbel. Haaretz2:14 PMOct 11, 2023Alarms sound in southern city Ashdod due to suspected aircraft infiltration from Gaza Noa Shpigel2:13 PMOct 11, 2023Meeting between Israel's Prime Minister Netanyahu and Former Defense Minister Benny Gantz, that last half an hour, has finishedReuters2:11 PMOct 11, 2023Jordan's king says no stability in region without emergence of Palestinian state Jordan's King Abdullah said on Wednesday no peace was possible in the Middle East without the emergence of an independent Palestinian state alongside Israel.The escalating violence showed the region would not "enjoy stability, security or peace" without the emergence of a Palestinian state with sovereignty on land that Israel had captured in the 1967 Arab-Israel war.A two-state solution was the only option, the monarch told deputies in a speech at the opening of a new parliamentary session.Haaretz2:10 PMOct 11, 2023Alarms sounds in Israel's southern cities Ashkelon, Be'er Ganim and Zikim Haaretz2:02 PMOct 11, 2023Sirens blare in the southern kibbutz Nahal OzHaaretz1:55 PMOct 11, 2023Israel's Home Front Command alarms of an aerial intrusion from Gaza near Kibbutz Nir OzIdo Efrati1:38 PMOct 11, 2023Gaza rockets hit buildings in Ashkelon, two wounded transported to hospitalHaaretz1:29 PMOct 11, 2023Sirens sound in Gaza-Border communities, Ashkelon and AshdodHaaretz1:23 PMOct 11, 2023Sirens sound in Ashkelon industrial area in southern IsraelRan Shimoni1:19 PMOct 11, 2023National Security Minister Ben-Gvir visits Sderot, meets Police Southern District chief Open gallery viewNational Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir in Sderot, on Wednesday.Credit: The National Security Ministry Press UnitHaaretz1:11 PMOct 11, 2023Alarms sound in Nir Am, southern Israel. Avi Scharf1:05 PMOct 11, 2023Five hours after gruesome attack began, a satellite captured Hamas atrocities in Israel Open gallery viewFire and smoke in Israeli kibbutzim along the Gaza border, as captured from space at 11:31 local time, SaturdayCredit: EU, Copernicus Sentinel data 2023, processed with EO BroswerAt 11:31 Saturday morning, five hours after Hamas’ attack began, a European Space Agency satellite passed over Israel and photographed the massacre’s aftermath in communities near the Gaza Strip.Sentinel-2 is one of two twin Earth observation satellites that continuously survey the planet, photographing each locale every five days.Hamas’ assault took place in many locales. The satellite images show smoke and fire rising from sites where rockets and mortars landed, from combat, from kibbutz homes torched with their residents inside and from the parking lot at Kibbutz Re’im, where hundreds of Israelis were slaughtered while attending a rave.Read full article hereHaaretz12:48 PMOct 11, 2023 The Mateh Asher Regional Council, located in northern Israel, asks its residents not to arrive at its coastal areaJack Khoury12:39 PMOct 11, 2023Gaza Health Ministry reports 1055 dead, 5184 woundedAnshel Pfeffer12:17 PMOct 11, 2023'So the world knows what happened': The scene of slaughter at Kibbutz Kfar Azza Open gallery viewThe attackers from Gaza burst through the fence into Kibbutz Kfar Azza using explosives and quickly reached the old houses, where students and young couples, some with babies, livedCredit: Rami ShllushThe stench of death has formed an invisible cloud over Kibbutz Kfar Azza. It gets fiercer as you walk towards the western side of the kibbutz. It is a silent witness to a massacre.It is a stench constituted by the many bodies of kibbutz residents still lying in their homes and of the terrorists who came to slaughter them and were then killed by Israeli soldiers. Those bodies are still lying on the kibbutz paths, three days later. Signposts on a trail of short-range murder. Shots fired through windows and doorways into tiny kibbutz rooms. A crime committed by perpetrators who lived just a short distance apart from their victims, just two kilometers away.Read the full story hereHaaretz12:13 PMOct 11, 2023Alarms sound in Ashkelon and Zikim, southern IsraelHaaretz12:04 PMOct 11, 2023Alarms sound in the Lachish Region council, southern IsraelHaaretz12:00 PMOct 11, 2023Alarms sound near Lebanese border, northern IsraelJack Khoury11:53 AMOct 11, 2023Gazan Health Ministry: '60 percent of wounded are children and elderly' Open gallery viewPalestinians carry a casualty at the site of Israeli strikes on houses, in Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip, on Wednesday.Credit:   IBRAHEEM ABU MUSTAFA/ REUTERSJack Khoury11:40 AMOct 11, 2023Hezbollah claims responsibility for firing the anti-tank missile at the IDF position near Lebanese borderClaiming its responsibility for the attack on an IDF post near the Lebanese border earlier on Wednesday, Hezbollah said in a statement that the organization "will respond decisively to any aggression against Lebanon."Michael Hauser Tov11:38 AMOct 11, 2023Netanyahu, Gantz begin meeting to discuss emergency governmentYaniv Kubovich11:36 AMOct 11, 2023IDF: 'We have attacked the Islamic University of Gaza that trains Hamas engineers'Haaretz11:30 AMOct 11, 2023Alarms sound in Sderot, Nir Am, Ivim and Erez. Yaniv Kubovich11:30 AMOct 11, 2023Senior Air Force official on Hamas attack: 'The whole army is responsible for not preventing this criminality' Open gallery viewKibbutz Kfar Aza after the Hamas invasion, on Tuesday.Credit:  Rami ShllushIn a briefing with military corespondents on Wednesday, Air force official, Brig. Gen. Omer Tishler said that the Hamas invasion that surprised Israel will be investigated, stressing that "As an army, we're all responsible for not preventing this criminality. We are all responsible and I'm responsible."Tishler added that since the Hamas infiltration to the Gaza-Border communities, the IDF has been attacking Gaza in an unprecedented level. "We're attacking in a way that the Gaza Strip has never experienced because this is an unprecedented event." He added that Hamas' method to hides its members among civilians is "no more acceptable." "We do not target civilians," Tishler emphasized. "There's a specific objective for each attack. We do not riot."Yaniv Kubovich11:09 AMOct 11, 2023Israel strikes Lebanon after anti-tank missile fired at army post near northern borderHaaretz11:05 AMOct 11, 2023Sirens activated in Netiv HaAsara near the Gaza borderAmos Harel11:03 AMOct 11, 2023Analysis | After the Horror, Israel Must Now Decide the Question of Taking Over Gaza Open gallery viewIDF forces in Israel's north, on Tuesday.Credit:  Gil EliyahuOn the fourth day of the war, one can hope that some change is taking shape, stemming partly from a change in Israel’s approach. The shock and paralysis that took hold after the surprise attack by Hamas and its horrific results are apparently beginning to abate.The Israeli military is mobilizing reserve forces in particularly large numbers, attacking the Gaza Strip incessantly from the air while preparing a possible ground maneuver, on a scale that is still unclear. In the north, Hezbollah is testing Israel’s alertness and patience, so far making do with small-scale attacks while possibly waiting to see the intensity of the IDF’s operations in Gaza before deciding on its own course of action.Read the full analysis hereHaaretz10:57 AMOct 11, 2023The Dutch government calls on its citizens not to arrive in LebanonHaaretz10:41 AMOct 11, 2023Residents of Avivim in northern Israel are called to enter shelters Open gallery viewThe scene of the attack, on Wednesday.Following the anti-tank missile attack in northern Israel, residents of Avivim are called to enter shelters.Haaretz10:34 AMOct 11, 2023IDF: Anti-tank missile fired at an Israeli military position near the Lebanese borderThe attack happened near the Arab al-Aramshe area in the Western Galilee in Israel, located south of the Lebanese border.Yaniv Kubovich10:29 AMOct 11, 2023IDF: 'We have so far informed 60 families that their loved ones were kidnapped to Gaza'Ido Efrati10:26 AMOct 11, 2023471 wounded Israeli civilians and soldiers are hospitalized, 109 in serious condition Open gallery viewThe Soroka Medical Center in Be'er Sheva, on Tuesday.Credit:  Eyal Toueg471 wounded Israeli civilians and soldiers are hospitalized, including 109 in serious condition, 199 in moderate condition and 183 who were lightly wounded. The total number of wounded civilians and soldiers since the beginning of the war is 3,007, including 28 in critical condition, 345 in severe condition, 563 in moderate condition, and 1609 who were lightly wounded. 123 patients were treated for anxiety and the medical condition of 228 patients is under evaluation.Haaretz10:01 AMOct 11, 2023National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir: 'Operation Guardian of the walls 2 is on its way, every resident of Sderot will be able to carry a weapon'Jack Khoury9:38 AMOct 11, 2023Gaza official says amount of diesel left in Strip is enough for max 12 hours Open gallery viewGaza City, on Wednesday.Credit: MOHAMMED ABED - AFPA Gaza official said on Wednesday morning that there are approximately 300,000 liters of diesel left in the Strip. This amount will be enough to run the Gaza power plant for maximum 12 hours.Haaretz9:28 AMOct 11, 2023Five buildings in Sderot hit by Gaza rocket; one person moderately wounded and evacuated to Barzilai Medical Center Open gallery viewA building that was hit in Sderot, on Wednesday.Credit: City of SderotThe Associated Press9:16 AMOct 11, 2023Gaza can’t reach people who are trapped under rubble, officials say Open gallery viewSmoke billows following Israeli strikes in Gaza City, on Wednesday.Credit:   SALEH SALEM/ REUTERSGaza can’t reach people who are trapped under rubble, officials sayAs airstrikes are reported nonstop in the Karama district north of Gaza city, many dead and injured are stuck under rubble that Gaza lacks the equipment to handle, officials said Wednesday.With streets badly damaged and the ongoing and intense nature of the airstrikes, ambulances and civil defense teams are unable to approach areas where people were reported trapped under crumbled infrastructure, Eyad Bozum, the Interior Ministry spokesperson, said in a statement.Bozum said that heavy airstrikes were also reported in the southern town of Khan Younis and in an area east of the Jebaliya refugee camp in northern Gaza.Haaretz9:10 AMOct 11, 2023Alarms sound in Sderot, Nirim and Nir AmZvi Bar'el9:08 AMOct 11, 2023Netanyahu, a Gang Leader Who Can't Go on Serving as Israel's PM | Opinion Open gallery viewPrime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, in August.Credit: Sharia Diamant“What we do to the enemy will reverberate for generations,” Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vowed in his empty speech on Monday. Instead, he should have adopted Menachem Begin’s famous statement from 1983, “I can’t go on,” which was made after he, too, had thought that what Israel did in Lebanon during the first Lebanon War would reverberate for generations.Menachem Begin resigned during that war and was replaced by Yitzhak Shamir. With his departure, the consensual lie that you can’t replace a prime minister during wartime also collapsed.Israel is now headed by a corrupt leader, a criminal defendant who just a moment ago was investing all his effort in carrying out a judicial coup. He has turned Western governments against him and undermined relations with the U.S. administration. He has marked the army, the Shin Bet security service and a majority of the public as enemies of the people. And now he’s leading the country into a war in which nobody even knows the precise goals, much less the outcome.Read the full article hereJack Khoury8:48 AMOct 11, 2023Former Hamas political bureau head Khaled Meshal calls on Arab world to protest on Friday Open gallery viewHamas Leader Khaled Meshal addressing the 8th General Conference of Sudanese Islamic Movement in Khartoum, 2012.Credit: Mohamed Nureldin Abdallah/ReutersIn a video recording on Wednesday, Meshal called for demonstrations throughout the Arab world as a sign of solidarity with the Palestinians.Haaretz8:45 AMOct 11, 2023Alarms sound in Nirim in Israel's southJack Khoury8:33 AMOct 11, 2023Gaza Health Ministry: At least 950 Palestinians killed, 5,000 wounded Open gallery viewPalestinians walk amid the rubble following Israeli airstrikes that razed swaths of a neighborhood in Gaza City, on Tuesday.Credit: Fatima Shbair /AP Eden Solomon8:30 AMOct 11, 2023Gaza rocket directly hits home in the city of Sderot, southern IsraelThe Associated Press8:24 AMOct 11, 2023Thailand’s Foreign Affairs Ministry: 20 Thai nationals killed, 14 kidnapped by HamasThe Associated Press8:21 AMOct 11, 2023Czech Republic's foreign minister visits Israel Open gallery viewCzech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky speaks to the media before EU-Ukraine foreign ministers meeting, amid Russia's attack on Ukraine, in Kyiv, Ukraine October 2, 2023.Credit:   VALENTYN OGIRENKO/ REUTERSCzech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky visited Israel on Tuesday to show his country’s support after the Hamas attack and brought more than 30 Czech nationals home from Israel on his plane, the Foreign Ministry said.Lipavsky met his Israeli counterpart Eli Kohen and President Isaac Herzog, the Ministry said. “Israel is one of us, the attacks and kidnappings unleashed by Hamas terrorists are an attack on all of us,” Lipavsky said in a statement.Lipavsky also met the relatives of a woman kidnapped by Hamas.Haaretz8:15 AMOct 11, 2023IDF: We have destroyed Hamas' aircraft detection systemThe IDF Spokesperson said Wednesday morning that it has destroyed Hamas' aircraft detection system. "For years, Hamas has established an array of high-quality cameras hidden inside solar panels throughout the Gaza Strip, with the aim of identifying and tracking aircraft… Our aircraft attacked all [locations] associated with this array and deprived Hamas of its capabilities."Haaretz8:12 AMOct 11, 2023Alarms sound in Sderot, Ivim and Nir AmHaaretz8:10 AMOct 11, 2023IDF: Number of Hamas members who infiltrated Israel indicates attempt to occupy Gaza border communitiesThe IDF spokesperson said Wednesday morning that the vast number of Hamas militants who infiltrated Israeli communities on the Gaza border indicates that the organization attempted to occupy the communities.Yaniv Kubovich8:04 AMOct 11, 2023At least 1,200 Israelis killed since beginning of the warLoad MoreClick the alert icon to follow topics: 2023 Israel-Gaza War IDF Palestinians HamasTrending NowIsrael's Ground Invasion of Gaza Will Happen. The When and How Depends on BidenThis Was Netanyahu's Most Catastrophic Error‘I Don’t Have Time to Let This Pain Get Inside My Head. I Can’t Be Defeated’Netanyahu's Ministers Want 'To Serve His Head on a Platter,' Refuse to Say So OpenlyWhy Right-wing America Is No Real Ally for IsraelCommentsIn the NewsWalkouts Protesting ‘Gaza Genocide’ Planned on Campuses Across U.S.'Even Before the War, Water in Gaza Was Not Enough to Shower'Qatar Hopes for Gaza Hostage Breakthrough 'Soon'; Israel Lauds Doha’s 'Essential' EffortsFar-right Coalition MK Redirects Gov't Budget to Aid Israeli Gaza Border Communities'I Wrote My Children's Names on Their Bodies. At Least They'll Identify Them'Peace Of Mind: Moving To Asssisted Living  Paid by Attorney Rakefet ShfaimICYMI'So the World Knows What Happened': The Scene of Slaughter at Kibbutz Kfar AzzaIn First, Archaeologists Extract DNA of Ancient IsraelitesHow Can Left-wingers Hail Hamas Atrocities Against Israelis as 'Palestinian Resistance?'My 62-year-old Dad Fought Hamas Terrorists to Free My Family. The Israeli State Failed UsIsrael Can’t Imprison Two Million Gazans Without Paying a Cruel PriceOne Year on From Mahsa Amini Killing: Any Gains for Iranian Women?haaretzFacebook Twitter Android Apple Email RSS SubscribeNewslettersTermsContact UsMy CookiesAdvertiseAccessibilityReport an issueAccessibility manifestDownload App© Haaretz Daily Newspaper Ltd. All Rights ReservedFAQContact usTerms and conditionsPrivacy policyCancellation of digital subscriptionsManagementEditorialNewslettersAccessibilityAdvertise on Haaretz.comAbout HaaretzLoad moreNews Israel NewsU.S. NewsMiddle EastJewish WorldWorld NewsTech NewsBusinessLife and CultureArchaeologyLifeScienceSportsCultureBooksTravel in IsraelTelevisionFoodSportsConverting to JudaismColumnists and Opinion
Chemi ShalevAllison Kaplan SommerAnshel PfefferDavid RosenbergOpinionHaaretz EditorialHaaretz CartoonLetters to the EditorSpecial CoverageHaaretz Hebrew and TheMarkerהר הביתוורדעלמדויקתמכירות נשקחוק הנבצרותמפה תל אביבמפלס הכנרתסרטים חדשים בקולנועמתכונים לסוכותPartnershipsHaaretz LabelsHaaretz.com, the online English edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, gives you breaking news, analyses and opinions about Israel, the Middle East and the Jewish World.© Haaretz Daily Newspaper Ltd. All Rights Reserved