



Penpot use cases at medium-to-big organisations, please contact us! - Ask the community - Penpot Community



























































    Penpot Community
  




Penpot use cases at medium-to-big organisations, please contact us!






Ask the community







ceo
















diacritica




                    October 11, 2023, 12:42pm
                  

1



Hi!
The journey so far has been super exciting and one thing I’d like to point out is how the perception of what Penpot can do for teams continues to evolve (see recent “Penpot as an app framework” post for a crazy example!).
We know this is just the beginning and major releases coming this year (Grid Layout, Components V2, New UI, performance improvements) are only going to make uses cases much more diversified and global.
That’s why we want to ask you to contact us if you think your organisation could benefit from a closer relationship with the Penpot team. Your particular use case could more easily be factored into the product backlog or benefit from early access to beta features (we conduct these regularly)! At the same time, we could get non obvious insights on how medium to big organisations are using Penpot (or planning to do).
This is an open invitation to everyone but organisations larger than 50 people where you have product teams of 5-15 people are particularly welcome to reach out to me or @carolina.portugal Your own ratio between designers and developers (or design and code activities) will always be fine, we actually want to learn how the industry is evolving.
Feel free to use DMs over here or write to support@penpot.app mentioning this post! Thank you!




5 Likes









ryanbreen




                    October 18, 2023,  8:52pm
                  

2



Happy to be crazy! 


















Home 




Categories 




FAQ/Guidelines 




Terms of Service 




Privacy Policy 




Powered by Discourse, best viewed with JavaScript enabled




Design Freedom for Teams
Penpot is the first Open Source design and prototyping platform meant for cross-domain teams.

Try Penpot - It's free














Terms and Conditions
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Data processing agreement
Newsletter


Features
Self-host
About us
Community
Dev Diaries
Libraries & templates
Help center


Twitter
Instagram
Github
Linkedin
Youtube
Mastodon
Product Hunt


Penpot © 2023  |  Made with LOVE and Open Source



