C⁺ Space Whitepaper. 1. Vision | by Cryptospace.art | Oct, 2023 | MediumC⁺ Space WhitepaperCryptospace.art·Follow18 min read·Oct 8--ListenShare1. VisionThe art forms of the Metaverse era will change. C⁺ Space is dedicated to creating the first Metaverse art ecosystem, where you can own your 3-asset art in the 3-space.1.1 MissionTo jointly create the Metaverse art ecosystem with our community.1.1.1 BackgroundThe Metaverse is currently regarded as a virtual reality world. Every industry will exist in the virtual reality world in a few decades. Metamont Ltd. believes that the Metaverse is an advanced social form where the physical reality world, the digital world (accessed through devices like PCs and smartphones), and the virtual reality world (accessed through XR devices) coexist, which is a new era. The virtual reality world includes three worlds: the digital twin world, the digital native world, and the digital companion world. With the development of terminal technologies such as AI technology, holographic technology, and XR, people will spend more time working, studying, shopping, entertainment, socializing, and other activities in the virtual reality world in the future. In terms of technology, various applications will be built into new XR terminals. Technologies such as retina navigation and voice interaction will weaken the digital world that currently uses H5 or APP as the entrance. People will constantly move between the three worlds. In the era of the Metaverse, there are three forms of “user, asset, and space.” “User” can be divided into natural persons, intelligent robots, and digital beings (cartoon characters, two-dimensional characters, silicon-based life, digital twins), bringing about more physical and digital avatars, entities, entities, and digital embodiments for humans. These will assume different roles in the three worlds of the Metaverse era to accomplish various tasks at the same time.1.1.2 Introduction to C⁺ Space“C⁺ Space” refers to CryptoSpace. “C⁺ Space” is a global Metaverse art ecosystem service platform based on the concept of the 3-space and 3-asset art of Metamont Ltd, which utilizes innovative technologies such as blockchain, artificial intelligence, digital twins, and spatial computing, combining them with independently developed Metaverse Asset and Space Agency Protocol of Metamont Ltd. C⁺ Space is an ecosystem for the production, transformation, and circulation of artworks in the form of physical art + digital art + virtual art, that combine 3-asset art. One 3-asset art is verified as one NFT. C⁺ Space represents a leading use case for XR terminals, combining blockchain technology for art provenance. It aims to connect all of humanity through Metaverse art, using technology to redefine art, breaking the limitations of time and space, as well as national, cultural, racial, gender, age, religious, ethnical, and other boundaries, the shared values and aspirations of all humanity are reflected through Metaverse art.1.2 Art Trading Trends in the Metaverse Era1.2.1 Prospects of Art TradingIn the upcoming metaverse era, there will be a revolutionary development in the trading and circulation of goods. Metaverse platforms for commodity trading will facilitate the seamless exchange and circulation of virtual, digital, and physical goods. Based on current market data and trend analysis, the metaverse goods market is experiencing rapid growth. The metaverse art trading market is a new market that leverages blockchain and virtual reality technologies, utilizing the latest blockchain protocols for RWA (Real World Assets) and NFTs (Non-Fungible Tokens). Users can display, buy, and sell artworks in the Metaverse through XR (Extended Reality) technology. These actions bridge the gap between users, artists, and artworks across space and time. They enable fast and seamless purchasing and usage experiences. Moreover, these artworks’ ownership and transaction records are recorded on the blockchain, ensuring transparency and traceability. The metaverse art trading market holds significant potential in the future.Firstly, the Metaverse art trading market can bring higher transparency and credibility to art transactions. In the traditional art trading market, it is difficult for users to confirm the authenticity and ownership of artworks due to the lack of transaction transparency and traceability, which has led to many disputes and frauds in art trading. In the Metaverse art trading market, all transaction records will be recorded on the blockchain, and the authenticity and ownership of the artwork can be confirmed, thus avoiding these problems.Secondly, the metaverse art trading market can provide greater convenience and flexibility for art transactions. In traditional art trading markets, buyers and sellers need to engage in face-to-face trading, whereas, in the Metaverse, users can conduct transactions from anywhere through virtual reality technology, offering both convenience and flexibility. Additionally, the metaverse art trading market can provide artists with more opportunities for exposure and sales, allowing a larger audience to appreciate their works.Thirdly, in the past, traditional art has often been seen as a symbol of the wealthy elite, accessible only to higher levels. As societies progress and people worldwide achieve material well-being, the pursuit of spiritual needs emerges. Art becomes a new form of advanced demand, which means more significant market potential.Fourthly, as metaverse technologies continue to advance and become more widespread, the metaverse art trading market has the potential to become a global trading market, attracting buyers and sellers worldwide. That will bring opportunities and challenges to the art trading market, necessitating continuous exploration and innovation to adapt to the development of this emerging market.1.2.2 Multi-modal Art in the Fusion of Real and Virtual WorldsMulti-modal art in the fusion of real and virtual worlds is an art form that combines reality, digital technology, and XR technology. It can present art through various mediums, such as physical forms, images, virtual reality, augmented reality, music, and more. This art form not only provides a more immersive experience but also breaks the limitations of traditional art forms, paving the way for new artistic expressions. Blockchain and NFT technologies can facilitate decentralized storage and distribution of art pieces, ensuring the rights of artists and collectors and the authenticity and immutability of artworks, thereby enhancing art circulation. Furthermore, these technologies can offer a more secure and transparent art trading environment. In the future, multi-modal art in the fusion of real and virtual worlds will become an independent art category and influence various art forms.1.2.3 Real-World Assets (RWA) for Physical ArtThe tokenization of physical art is a way to transform physical artworks into digital assets, enabling their trading, storage, and management on the blockchain. This approach allows more people to participate in art trading and collecting while ensuring the authenticity and immutability of artworks. RWA technology can contribute to the development of the tokenization of physical art in the following ways:1 Creating digital representations of artworks: Through RWA technology, artists can digitize their physical artworks, including photographs, videos, 3D scans, and others. These digital representations can be stored on the blockchain, facilitating trading and management.2 Enhancing traceability and authenticity of artworks: RWA technology can provide digital signatures and timestamps on the blockchain, ensuring the authenticity and traceability of artworks. Users can trace the transaction history and ownership of artworks, guaranteeing transaction transparency and fairness.3 Providing secure and transparent art trading: Blockchain technology can offer decentralized trading platforms, safeguarding the security and privacy of artworks. Additionally, smart contracts can automate transactions, ensuring fast and accurate exchanges.4 Offering more revenue opportunities for artists and collectors: Through the tokenization of physical art, artists can earn a portion of the sales revenue, while collectors can benefit from the appreciation of artworks. Overall, RWA can facilitate the development of tokenized physical art, promoting the growth of the art ecosystem. With the support of digitization and blockchain technology, physical artworks can be more easily traded and managed while providing additional revenue streams for artists and collectors.1.3 Limitations in developing the traditional art and digital art NFT markets.1.3.1 Issues in the traditional art marketThe traditional art market has long been a privilege for a few individuals, and it faces challenges in authentication, circulation, transaction, and evaluation. The issues of counterfeit prevention, circulation, and verification have been persistent problems in the traditional art market.1.3.2 Limitations of the digital art NFT marketAfter the bull market in 2021, the NFT market, including blue-chip NFTs, experienced a significant decline in prices and trading volume. The financial and speculative attributes of NFTs have been pushed to the extreme, but the actual value of the underlying artwork lacks practical guarantees and anchoring. The U.S. SEC has been gradually determining NFTs as “securities” through different cases, making the projects’ commitment to the financial attributes and return promises of NFTs increasingly risky. Anchoring the value of NFTs through tangible assets can enhance their collectible characteristics, distance them from being classified as “securities,” and maintain their good liquidity.1.3.3 Challenges in asset securitizationThe current art trading market in the Metaverse needs help mapping art assets from the physical, digital, and virtual worlds and introducing them to the Metaverse for trading. That requires addressing the challenge of asset mapping Oracle. Oracle refers to a mechanism that brings real-world data and events into the blockchain for processing. In the metaverse art trading market, the role of Oracle is to get art asset information from the physical world into the blockchain for trading in the Metaverse. However, the value and verification of artworks are often subjective and difficult to quantify, making it a challenge to build a reliable Oracle system to ensure the authenticity and value of art. Emerging technologies and methods have been proposed to solve the above problem, such as using multiple data sources to verify the authenticity and value of art, employing blockchain traceability to ensure transparency and traceability of transactions, and utilizing encryption chips and zero-knowledge proof technology to guarantee the synchronization of on-chain and off-chain assets.1.3.4 Identity authentication and transaction circulation isolationVarious issues exist in circling and trading physical, digital, and virtual arts. Due to the limitations of Web 2.0 technologies, there needs to be more communication between e-commerce platforms, resulting in isolated trading platforms and users needing help to use a unified identity across different trading platforms and digital and physical marketplaces. The user experience in searching for and selecting goods is also hindered due to physical goods’ spatial and temporal constraints.1.3.4.1 Identity isolation:Each application or platform has an independent identity system in the Web 2.0 era. Users need to register different accounts for purchasing goods on various platforms. Managing an increasing number of accounts becomes a nightmare for users, especially considering the growing network security risks, which also significantly increase unnecessary risks to users’ privacy and data security. In the future metaverse era, there is a need for a reliable and secure decentralized identity system that allows users to access different applications and services safely and conveniently.1.3.4.2 Circulation isolation:Goods must be listed on different platforms for transactions, which is cumbersome and hinders effective management and tracking of goods. Users need help understanding the traceability of the source and destination of goods due to the fragmented data across Web 2.0 platforms.1.3.5 Lack of use casesAlthough metaverse and virtual reality technologies have been widely applied, there currently need to be more use cases, especially for art. To experience physical world art in the Metaverse requires virtual technologies based on XR (extended reality) techniques. However, building virtual art galleries incurs high costs in terms of time and workforce, and the use cases are limited. Additionally, art utilization is not limited to XR appreciation alone. In fact, during the art design phase, artworks can already be designed in the virtual world.1.3.6 Metaverse technology as the next-generation network technologyMetaverse technology represents the next evolution of network technology, but it needs to overcome the isolation of space, identity, and scenarios to achieve revolutionary updates. By seamlessly integrating physical, digital, and virtual spaces, individuals can produce, purchase, sell, and enjoy various forms of physical, digital, and virtual goods. While blockchain technology and NFT protocols can unify the digitization of goods, mapping physical goods, digital goods, and virtual goods still requires Oracle mechanisms provided by suppliers from each respective world to ensure the security of securitization. The Metaverse era is a new era that requires continuous exploration. As the infrastructure provider for the metaverse art ecosystem, C+Space will continue to focus on the metaverse network, XR, asset mapping, security technologies, and the ecological community. Below, we will address the limitations of several metaverse art transactions mentioned earlier and propose a solution based on the current state of technology to solve issues such as user asset security, identity isolation in the metaverse network, and the exploration of usage scenarios.1.4 ValueOur Cultural Pillars: Sustainability, Inclusivity, Co-creationSustainability: We aim to reflect real-world issues through art and attract global users’ attention to topics closely related to humanity, such as environmental protection. We will collaborate with international charitable organizations and allocate some proceeds to support them. Additionally, through our incentive mechanisms, we encourage users to engage in sustainable behaviors in their daily lives actively, driving positive change and making a significant impact.Inclusivity: The participants in our community include users from Web3 familiar with blockchain economic models and users from Web2. We strive to help everyone better understand and integrate into the community through easily understandable rules. In C⁺ Space, you don’t have to worry about your identity as long as we share the same goal, which is to build the metaverse art community jointly.Co-creation: Community co-creation is the lifeblood of the Metaverse and web3, and it is the same for C⁺ Space. As early developers, we lead the exploration and convey our core spirit and principles by launching metaverse artworks. Subsequently, we become the bridge between artists and users, bringing more excellent metaverse art from artists to users. We highly value users’ expectations. Users in C⁺ Space can also receive rewards by participating in the community and owning their 3-asset art.1.5 Fundamental Principles When building the metaverse art ecosystem, we adhere to the following essential principles:Assets belong to users and the community: By leveraging blockchain technology and new asset distribution models, users truly own 3-asset art while connecting the community through DAOs.Transparency: Transparent distribution data of physical products, transparent custody, and transparent transactions of the 3-asset art.Community consensus: Co-create metaverse artworks with community users and collectively define the development of the entire metaverse art ecosystem.1.6 Business Plan The C⁺ Space platform realizes the 3-asset art and the use case of metaverse space through the incubation and collaboration of metaverse artworks. The first environmentally-themed metaverse artwork series, “IMBear,” will be released soon. As the project progresses, the team will gradually disclose details of the related physical custody system, charity mechanism, and copyright mechanism. Due to the anchoring attributes of 3-asset art to physical assets, the trading system will have a minimum price protection mechanism, and detailed information and modes will be announced later.2. C⁺ Space EcosystemThe C⁺ Space ecosystem creates a new artistic experience and interaction for artists and users through collaborative creation and secure transactions of metaverse artworks utilizing blockchain technology. It breaks the constraints of traditional art in terms of time and space, promoting artistic innovation and development.The distinctive features of the C⁺ Space ecosystem include open, collaborative creation and trading, digitalization and uniqueness of artworks, virtual exhibitions, interactive experiences, and community participation and governance. The metaverse art community provides a broader space for artists and audiences to create and engage, driving art’s digitalization, virtualization, and innovative development.2.1 3-Asset Art EcologyWith the advent of the digital and virtual era, artworks are no longer limited to physical entities in the physical world. Digital and virtual artworks have also flourished. 3-asset art combines virtual and digital technologies with physical artworks, integrating multiple forms of the 3-asset art across three worlds: physical, digital, and virtual. It solves the value foundation of virtual artworks, the limitations of physical artworks in the real world, and the difficulties in interaction between participants in the circulation of artworks.3-asset art achieves RWA (Real-World Asset) transformation by minting and issuing 3-asset artworks as NFT assets on the blockchain. Which improves liquidity, expands the audience for artworks and intellectual properties to global markets, and enables risk diversification through collaborative mechanisms facilitated by DAOs, seeking partners for cooperation.At the same time, the RWA transformation of 3-asset art increases transaction transparency. Transaction records can be traced and verified using technologies like blockchain, ensuring transparency and authenticity while reducing potential fraud and risks.Additionally, 3-asset art possesses programmability and innovation. Digital assets are programmable, allowing for functionalities such as smart contracts. This programmability provides opportunities for innovative financial products and services, such as automated payments and profit distribution, increasing the flexibility and diversity of assets.2.2 Ecosystem RolesThe ecosystem roles primarily include:3-asset art creatorsTradersInfrastructure providersArbitration committeesDAOs2.2.1 3-Asset Art CreatorsIP CreatorsIP creation involves expanding existing artworks based on the artist’s creativity and imagination. Artists can maximize the value of IP by creating related artworks, derivatives, cross-media works, brand collaborations, and others, establishing deeper connections with the audience and the market.Digital Virtual DesignersThey combine physical artworks with virtual reality technology, transcending time and space. Users enable the immersive appreciation of artworks in the XR virtual world anytime, anywhere through C⁺ Space’s 3D spatial infrastructure services.Physical Artwork CraftersThey transform 2D digital art or 3D virtual artworks into tangible artworks that can be touched and experienced in the physical world through techniques such as painting, 3D printing, sculpture, and ceramic art. That enhances the underlying value and modes of appreciation for virtual artworks.2.2.2 TradersTraders in the C⁺ Space ecosystem are committed to connecting 3-asset art creators, collectors, and investors, facilitating the circulation and trading of digital artworks. They can provide liquidity for scarce artworks, and create an Automated Market Maker (AMM) mechanism. The ecosystem will encourage the secondary use of low goods and reward liquidity providers. The more scarce and in-demand an interest is, the more substantial the rewards for the liquidity provider.2.2.3 Arbitration CommitteesArbitration committees comprise seven members elected by the DAO to arbitrate disputes between users and space agents. The selection of arbitration committee members occurs every six months, with candidate identities publicly disclosed to the community and candidate qualifications verified by the Protocol Governance Committee.2.2.4 DAOThe DAO is responsible for the community development and management of the C⁺ Space ecosystem. It manages the technical and operational communities of the protocol, as well as incentive mechanisms and policy-making for the community.2.3 ArtFi Multi-modal EcosystemC⁺ Space will introduce the ArtFi ecosystem, an extension of NFTFi, to provide more financial services and tools for investors and creators in the art market. That will promote the prosperity of the art market and drive the development of NFTFi technology.2.4 Genesis Membership CardThe Genesis Card is the core identity card of the C⁺ Space platform, and holders have the highest privileges in the ecosystem. Genesis members enjoy benefits such as whitelist access, priority purchases for each metaverse art project within the ecosystem, transaction discounts, and space privileges. The number of Genesis membership cards is limited and distributed through whitelisting to early participants, builders, and influencers of the C⁺ Space platform.2.5 Insomnia Bear (ImBear)Insomnia Bear (ImBear) is the first Metaverse 3-asset art listed on C⁺ Space. It combines the physical, digital, and virtual forms of art. Imbear will demonstrate the use cases and expressive forms of 3-asset art in the C⁺ Space ecosystem by combining physical hosting, blockchain-based digital representation, and virtual reality presentation.3. C⁺ Space Protocol — Metaverse Commodity Space Agent Protocol3.1 Background of the C+Space ProtocolThe Metaverse Commodity Space Agent Protocol, abbreviated as the C⁺ Space Protocol, is a connectivity and interaction protocol developed by Metamont Ltd for the three spaces of the Metaverse. Built on blockchain technology, the C⁺ Space Protocol connects the three spaces and 3-asset art, establishing identification for users, assets, and spaces within the Metaverse. The protocol ensures asset circulation rights authentication and security within the space by utilizing space-collateralized agent deposits. It solves the integrative trading and circulation issues of 3-asset art in the metaverse era, enabling the entire life cycle empowerment of 3-asset art from design, development, production, and circulation to transaction.4. RoadmapQ3 2023: C⁺ Space internal testing, the release of C⁺Space whitepaper, the launch of Genesis membership, and the release of the first metaverse artwork, Insomnia Bear.Q4 2023: C⁺ Space v1 launch, official marketplace opening, collaboration with IP incubation platforms.Q1 2024: C⁺ Space v2 release, multi-chain integration, implementation of XR space protocol.2024–2025: Support for smart contract engines.2025–2026: Launch of global-themed cultural communities.5. Tokenomics5.1 Token EconomySupport for payment of transaction fees, handling fees, and deposits using fiat currency and cryptocurrencies.Future issuance of governance tokens.5.2 Use CasesSpace agent registration depositsAgent fees paid by users to space agentsArbitration feesTransaction processing feesValue medium for derivative market-makingDAO Equity Proof5.3 Distribution Method6. TeamMetamont Ltd. A metaverse infrastructure provider, the pioneer of the 3-space and 3-asset art theory in the Metaverse, proposing that 3-asset arts are one NFT that encompasses physical, digital, and virtual forms, integrating commodities, artworks, investment products, and collectibles. Metamont Ltd. adheres to innovation-driven development, continuously advancing the deep integration of technology and art, empowering physical entities with innovative technologies, connecting the 3-space of the Metaverse and 3-asset art through NFTs, and facilitating the circulation of artworks.Core Team Members:Welee Wen  — Founder of C⁺ Space — Vice President of Montnet — CEO of Artmuse — Co-founder of Awakening Venture, a web3 investment fund — Angel investor in web3 projects — Deep insights and thoughts on the combination of blockchain technology, metaverse XR interaction technology, AI, and traditional industries — Experienced entrepreneur with successful IPOs and acquisitions — Pioneer and practitioner in China’s mobile internet industry — Held senior management positions in Focus Media Group and China.com GroupElliot Ning  — Tech Co-founder of C⁺ Space — Senior technical expert in Web3 — Years of development experience in the mobile internet field — Former positions at top tech companies such as Meizu and Allwinner — Technical expert at NodePacific and LingZong Security — Profound insights in architecture design and security research — Expertise in economic models and technical principles of web3, including chain platforms, DeFi, NFT, DAO, etc.Tim Tong — Product Co-founder of C⁺ Space — Internet product expert — Keen insights into the development trends of the internet — Held essential positions such as product manager, delivery manager, and project manager in multiple listed companies, including Montnet — Rich experience in various fields of the internet, adept at integrating knowledge from different domains and utilizing emerging technologies to drive business innovationJt Song — Marketing Co-founder of C⁺ Space — 10 years of overseas work experience — Senior expert in financial investment and market fields — Former International Business Director of a publicly listed company — Former head of the NFT division at a blockchain investment institution — Strategic advisor for multiple Web3 projects — Former market leader of the NFT division at a frontline exchange — Early-stage venture partner in the NFT industry, responsible for overall market and strategic operations of various medium to large Web3 projects from 0 to launch7. InvestorsMetamont Ltd is headquartered in Hong Kong and is invested in by a wholly-owned subsidiary of Montnets (SZ.002123), a company listed on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange. The company’s ecological organizations and collaborative work teams are currently located in New York, San Francisco, Singapore, Paris, and other areas.8. DisclaimerThe information provided in this whitepaper does not constitute legal, financial, commercial, or tax advice. Before participating in any activities related to this project, you should consult your own legal, financial, commercial, or other professional advisors. The project’s staff, development team members, third-party development organizations, and service providers are not liable for any direct or indirect damages or losses that may arise from using this whitepaper. This whitepaper is for general informational purposes only and does not constitute a prospectus, offering document, securities offering, solicitation for investment, or sale of any product, item, or asset (digital or otherwise). The information provided may not be exhaustive and does not imply any contractual elements.The whitepaper does not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of the information and does not guarantee or promise the accuracy and completeness of the provided information. In cases where the whitepaper includes information obtained from third parties, the community and team still need to verify the accuracy and completeness of such information independently. Furthermore, it should be understood that the surrounding environment and circumstances may change at any time, rendering this whitepaper outdated. The community is not obligated to update or correct the content and files related to this whitepaper.The information provided in this whitepaper is for community discussion purposes and does not have legal binding force. No one is obligated to enter into any contracts or legally binding commitments regarding the acquisition of C+Space. Additionally, this whitepaper does not accept any form of virtual currency or other forms of payment. The purchase and long-term holding of tokens is subject to a set of independent terms or a purchase agreement containing relevant terms and conditions (as applicable), which will be provided to you separately or made available on the website. If there is any inconsistency between these terms and conditions and this whitepaper, the terms and conditions shall prevail.The regulatory authorities have not reviewed or approved any information listed in this whitepaper, nor are there any laws, regulations, or rules in any jurisdiction that require or will require such review or approval. This whitepaper’s publication, distribution, or dissemination does not imply compliance with applicable legal requirements or rules. That is merely a conceptual whitepaper describing the future development goals of C+Space under research and development. This whitepaper may be subject to periodic modifications or replacements. There is no obligation to update the whitepaper or provide additional information beyond the scope of this whitepaper to the audience.The use of any company or platform names or trademarks (except where explicitly related to the community or its affiliates) in this document does not imply any association or endorsement by these third-party platforms and companies. The companies and platforms mentioned in this whitepaper are only for reference and illustrative purposes.----FollowWritten by Cryptospace.art17 FollowersThe world's leading Metaverse art ecosystem， Physical+Digital+Virtual asset exchange.FollowMore from Cryptospace.artCryptospace.artIntro of 3-space (v1.0)What is 3-Space ?4 min read·Aug 4--Cryptospace.artC⁺ Space白皮书1. 願景: 元宇宙時代藝術形態應隨之改變，C⁺ Space致力於打造首個元宇宙三體藝術生態，在3-space擁有你自己的3-asset藝術19 min read·Oct 8--See all from Cryptospace.artRecommended from MediumEldora GerholdPePeMo: Empowering the Community Through Memes and CryptocurrencyIn the ever-evolving landscape of cryptocurrencies, a new contender has emerged that combines the power of decentralized finance (DeFi)…4 min read·Aug 15--SolakGPT$1000 ETH Up For Grab: SOLAK TWITTER THREAD CONTESTCalling all Solakers!, 📢2 min read·Oct 11--ListsStaff Picks484 stories·374 savesStories to Help You Level-Up at Work19 stories·260 savesSelf-Improvement 10120 stories·765 savesProductivity 10120 stories·694 savesTruthexSTON.fi DEX  Revolutionizing Cross Chain Swaps in DeFi Ecosystem.6 min read·5 days ago--Rebecca LiaoinSagaxyzSaga Launch Airdrop Criteria: InnovatorsGreetings Saganauts!5 min read·Oct 16--Isaac SaulA personal, non-partisan perspective on the Israel-Hamas warTo understand this war, we must understand the thousand-year history that led us here11 min read·Oct 12--432OttochainOttochain’s AirdropA 50% Airdrop Allocation for Our Thriving Community and Ecosystem3 min read·Oct 10--See more recommendationsHelpStatusAboutCareersBlogPrivacyTermsText to speechTeams































