


Biden's advisor: US capable of supporting both Israel and Ukraine
















































































War
Politics
Economy
Fact checks
Defense
Society and Culture 
Sports
Crime
Accidents and Emergencies




Publications
Interviews
Photo
Video
Longreads
Releases




Contacts
More »


















Eng



Укр


Eng


Esp


Deu


Fra


日本語


Pol






News


Subscription


Photobank


Press-center


Releases


FreeDOM
























Ukrainian multimedia platform for broadcasting
Wednesday, 25 October 2023, 16:09

































Biden's advisor: US capable of supporting both Israel and Ukraine


11.10.2023 06:15



Ukrinform




Jake Sullivan, United States National Security Advisor to President Joe Biden, said that the United States is capable of providing assistance to Israel and continuing to support Ukraine in the face of Russian invasion.

“We believe that the United States is capable of supporting Ukraine in Europe, of supporting our allies in the Indo-Pacific, and of supporting our close ally, Israel, in its hour of need,” Sullivan said at a briefing when asked if Israel's war with Hamas would make it more difficult for the Biden administration to support Ukraine and allies in the Indo-Pacific region.
According to Sullivan, “we believe we have the resources, tools, and capacities to be able to effectively do that.” He noted that part of the Administration’s activity is to ensure the coordination in all the theaters at once.
As noted, the amount of resources needed to continue supporting Ukraine is not commensurate with the price that will have to be paid in case of expansion of Russian aggression across Europe, "that might ultimately, as it has in the past, require the actual deployment of American troops to combat."
“So, better to support the Ukrainians as they stand firm against Russian aggression and do so on a sustained basis. And we have the budget wherewithal to be able to do that. We also have the budget wherewithal to be able to provide Israel what it needs,” Sullivan summed up.

















  Sign up for our free newsletter skorik@ukrinform.com.

   Let’s get started read our news at facebook messenger  > > >   
Click here for subscribe

 




Top news





Russia’s death toll in Donetsk region in past three days climbs to staggering 3,000






Russian troops carry out 147 attacks in Sumy region over past day







Umerov discusses speeding up F16s supply to Ukraine with Danish defense minister






Stefanchuk meets with Czech president








More news




Top news






Kryvyi Rih struck with eight Russian missiles: Hydraulic structures damaged










Topics





Agency

 Information on Agency 
 Our Contacts 
 Subscribtion Terms 
 Our Services 
 Privacy policy and personal data protection 





While citing and using any materials on the Internet, links to the website ukrinform.net not lower than the first paragraph are mandatory. In addition, citing the translated materials of foreign media outlets is possible only if there is a link to the website ukrinform.net and to the website of a foreign media outlet. Citing and using materials in offline media, mobile apps, Smart TV are allowed only with written permission from Ukrinform. News and publications marked as "Advertisement" and "PR" and articles in the section "Releases" include promoted content, and an advertiser is responsible for the content.
© 2015-2023 Ukrinform. All rights reserved.
Website design  Studio Laconica
























Extended searchHide extended search



All topics
War
Politics
Economy
Fact checks
Defense
Society and Culture 
Sports
Crime
Accidents and Emergencies



By period:




 -















