















High-Performance Order Storage - WooCommerce


















































































 
 







 






Skip to navigation
Skip to content










		Technical Documentation	



Technical Documentation


					Reference
				
Expand



					Snippets
				
Expand



					Theming Snippets
				



					Frontend Snippets
				



					General Snippets
				
 




					Extending
				
Expand



					Theming
				
 






								Documentation									
													/
							

								High-Performance Order Storage											

High-Performance Order Storage

High-Performance Order Storage (HPOS) also previously known as “Custom Order Tables” is a solution that provides an easy-to-understand and solid database structure – specifically designed for eCommerce needs. It uses the WooCommerce CRUD design to store order data in custom tables – optimized for WooCommerce queries with minimal impact on the store’s performance. 
In January 2022, we published the initial plan for the Custom Order Tables feature and since then, we’ve been working hard to bring the High-Performance Order Storage (HPOS) to WooCommerce Core. In May 2022, we invited you to test the order migration process and provide feedback on how our initial work performs on real stores of varied configurations.
From WooCommerce 8.2, released on October 2023, High-Performance Order Storage (HPOS) is officially released under the stable flag and will be enabled by default for new installations.
What’s New with High-Performance Order Storage? ↑ Back to top
Bringing High-Performance Order Storage (HPOS) to WooCommerce improves these three essential properties for eCommerce stores. 

Scalability

The rise in the number of customers and customer orders increases the load on your store’s database – making it difficult to handle customer order requests and deliver a seamless user experience.
With High-Performance Order Storage, you get dedicated tables for data like orders and order addresses and thus dedicated indexes which results in fewer read/write operations and fewer busy tables. This feature enables eCommerce stores of all shapes and sizes to scale their business to their maximum potential – without expert intervention. 

Reliability 

High-Performance Order Storage makes implementing and restoring targeted data backup easier. You’ll no longer need to worry about losing orders, inventory numbers, or client information with reliable backup in these custom order tables. It’ll also facilitate implementing read/write locks and prevent race conditions.

Simplicity 

You no longer have to go through a single huge database to locate underlying data and WooCommerce entries. 
With High-Performance Order Storage, you can easily browse through the separate tables and easy-to-handle entries, independent of the table _posts, to find data or understand the table structure. It also lets you easily develop new plugins, implement designs for shops and products, and modify WooCommerce with more flexibility.
Background ↑ Back to top
Before the release of version 8.2, WooCommerce relied on the _post and _postmeta table structures to store order information, which has served well over the years. 
However, High-Performance Order Storage introduces dedicated tables for data like orders and order addresses and thus dedicated indexes which results in fewer read/write operations and fewer busy tables. This feature enables eCommerce stores of all shapes and sizes to scale their business to their maximum potential – without expert intervention. 
The order data is synced from _posts and _postmeta table to four custom order tables:

_wc_orders
_wc_order_addresses
_wc_order_operational_data
_wc_orders_meta

Enable High-Performance Order Storage ↑ Back to top
From WooCommerce 8.2, released on October 2023, HPOS is enabled by default for new installations. Existing stores can switch to the “High-Performance Order Storage” from “WordPress Posts Storage” by following the below steps.
To activate High-Performance Order Storage, existing stores will first need to get both the posts and orders table in sync, which can be done by turning on the setting “Enable compatibility mode (synchronizes orders to the posts table)“.

Navigate to WooCommerce > Settings > Advanced > Features
Turn on the “Enable compatibility mode (synchronizes orders to the posts table)” setting.
Once this setting is activated, background actions will be scheduled. 

The action wc_schedule_pending_batch_process checks whether there are orders that need to be backfilled.
If there are, it schedules another action wc_run_batch_process that actually backfills the orders to post storage.
You can either wait for these actions to run on their own, which should be quite soon, or you can go to WooCommerce > Status > Scheduled Actions, find the actions and click on the run button.
The action will backfill 25 orders at a time, if there are more orders to be synced, then more actions will be scheduled as soon as the previous actions are completed.


After both tables are successfully synchronized, you’ll be able to select the option to switch to High-Performance Order Storage (HPOS). 

It is advisable to maintain compatibility mode for some time to ensure a seamless transition. In case of any issues, reverting to the post table can be done instantly.



Setting: Enable compatibility mode (synchronizes orders to the posts table)Scheduled action: wc_schedule_pending_batch_process Scheduled action: wc_run_batch_process


Alternatively, you can also use the CLI command wp wc cot sync to copy orders from the posts table to the HPOS tables. This command will automatically identify the appropriate table for data transfer based on the authoritative table setting.

Note: Turning the setting Enable compatibility mode (synchronizes orders to the posts table) off and on again will also schedule the backfill process again if needed.

Order Data Storage ↑ Back to top
You can switch between data stores freely to sync the data between the tables.

If you select “WordPress Post Tables”, the system will save the order data within _post and _postmeta tables. The order tables are not utilized in this scenario.



If you select “High-Performance Order Storage”, the system will save the order data within the new WooCommerce order tables



If you select “WordPress Post Tables” and “Enable compatibility mode”, the system will sync the order data between the posts/postmeta and the WooCommerce order tables.


Synchronization ↑ Back to top
When the “High-Performance Order Storage” and “Compatibility mode” are enabled, WooCommerce populates the HPOS tables with data from posts & postmeta tables. The synchronization between the tables is explained in detail in this document.
Incompatible Plugins ↑ Back to top
If you are using a plugin that is not compatible with High-Performance Order Storage, then the HPOS option will be disabled under WooCommerce > Settings > Advanced > Features.


You can click on “View and manage” to review the list of incompatible plugins
Or you can visit https://example.com/wp-admin/plugins.php?plugin_status=incompatible_with_feature&feature_id=custom_order_tables to review the list of incompatible plugins (please replace example.com with your site domain)


Note: If you are using a third-party extension that isn’t working properly with High-Performance Order Storage then please notify the developers of the extension and ask them to update their extension to add support for HPOS. It’s up to the extension developers to add support for HPOS. We have developer resources and documentation available to help with their integration efforts.
Disabling HPOS ↑ Back to top
If you encounter problems or if you need to continue working with plugins that are not yet compatible with HPOS, then we recommend temporarily switching back to WordPress posts storage.
To do this, navigate to WooCommerce ▸ Settings ▸ Advanced ▸ Features and start by making sure that compatibility mode is enabled. If it was not already enabled, you may find you need to wait for some time while order data is synchronized across data-stores.

Once synchronization has completed, you can select WordPress posts storage (legacy) as your preferred option. You can also disable compatibility mode at this point. Once you are ready to re-enable HPOS, simply follow the instructions posted at the start of this doc. Finally, remember to save this page between changes! 
As noted earlier, we also strongly recommend reaching out to the support teams of any plugins that are incompatible, so they can take corrective action.
Upgrading for Developers ↑ Back to top
If you or your team needs to update your store’s custom code, extension or anything related to HPOS, check out our Upgrade Recipe Book to find all the technical details.
Frequently Asked Questions ↑ Back to top
I have an existing store but don’t want to enable HPOS. Do I have to? ↑ Back to top
No problem! While we do encourage everyone to switch to HPOS to enjoy the full benefits of a faster checkout experience for your customers, we understand that not everyone will want to try it right away. The feature is completely opt-in and you will be able to switch anytime.
My favorite extension is incompatible with HPOS, what should I do? ↑ Back to top
We have been actively communicating about the upcoming HPOS change with our developer community. We have several blog posts, guides for how to update extensions in GitHub, and full documentation. Despite our best efforts to encourage extension developers to make the switch, some developers may not accommodate HPOS. If one of your extensions is incompatible, we strongly recommend that you reach out to the developer’s support team and ask them to make the update. You will continue to be able to use the extension without HPOS if you already have it installed.
Can small businesses use HPOS or is it only meant for larger businesses? ↑ Back to top
Businesses of all sizes will benefit from High-Performance Order Storage. 
I have a high-volume store on WooCommerce. How does this impact my store? ↑ Back to top
Existing stores will not be migrated over to HPOS automatically. The feature is completely opt-in. You can enable HPOS by following the steps mentioned above.
Are there any specific hosting requirements or limitations for using HPOS in WooCommerce? ↑ Back to top
There are no hosting restrictions. Any host that is able to run WordPress & WooCommerce should have no trouble running HPOS, and it should even increase performance in a number of ways after it is enabled. You can visit this link for details on the server requirements needed for WooCommerce.
For more technical insight, take a look at our developer blog FAQ. 







					On this page				



								What’s New with High-Performance Order Storage?							



								Background							



								Enable High-Performance Order Storage							



								Order Data Storage							



								Synchronization							



								Incompatible Plugins							



								Disabling HPOS							



								Upgrading for Developers							



								Frequently Asked Questions							



												I have an existing store but don’t want to enable HPOS. Do I have to?											



												My favorite extension is incompatible with HPOS, what should I do?											



												Can small businesses use HPOS or is it only meant for larger businesses?											



												I have a high-volume store on WooCommerce. How does this impact my store?											



												Are there any specific hosting requirements or limitations for using HPOS in WooCommerce?											
















 30-day money-back guarantee




 Support teams across the world




 Safe and secure online payment







Footer Links

WooCommerceAbout
Press
Trademark Guidelines
Brand and logo guidelines
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Contact Us
SellWoo for Merchants
Payments
No-Code Customization
Marketing
Checkout
Shipping
Mobile App
Enterprise Ecommerce
Jetpack for WooCommerce
Paid Newsletter Subscriptions
Extensions & ThemesAll Extensions
All Themes
New
Essentials
Collections
Developed by Woo
BuildWoo for Developers
Developer Resources
Build Stores — Become a WooExpert
Build Products — Extensions, SaaS, Themes
ResourcesBlog
Documentation
Email Newsletter
Support
Customer Showcase
Hire an Expert Agency
Customer Success
Support Policy
Refund Policy
Participate in Customer Research
Accessibility
 





Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
Blog feed


Copyright WooCommerce 2023
Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Privacy Notice for California Users


An Automattic company





 









































































