




















Leader DAO | Rewarding Leaders, Through Smart AI















[ Loading... ]























Home
What is it?
How it works
Roadmap
Team












              Rewarding Leaders, Through
              Smart Ai


              The community-driven DAO and go-to-market platform, where members
              make informed decisions with the power of Al and the assurity of
              augmented bonding curves.
            







              Your browser does not support the video tag.
            





            Your browser does not support the video tag.
          






              What is LeaderDAO.AI?



              LeaderDAO.Al is the community-driven DAO and decentralized
              fundraising platform, allowing members access to new and existing
              projects. Our Al aids decision making by assisting in the
              detection of previously undiscovered opportunities and risks. Our
              augmented bonding curve offers continuous funding for projects,
              while adding an additional layer of protection and value for
              investors.
            


                Members use LeaderDAO.AI’s native token ($LDAO) to obtain
                votes:

              Votes can be used to select ANY token on the open market that
              LeaderDAO.Al members collectively desire to receive as their
              staking reward. Votes are also used to support soon-to-be listed
              tokens and secure allocations in proportion to the amount of $LDAO
              staked.
            






            Your browser does not support the video tag.
          






              How It Works.
            

              ALL PROTOCOL FEES GO TOWARDS REWARDING LEADERS.
            


              The protocol fees from staking, unstaking and the go-to-market
              platform are pooled, with the pool being used for various
              functions such as veLDAO staking rewards and to purchase the
              primary token LDAO. As members vote for the projects they want to
              see on top of the Leaderboard, the LeaderDAO.Al community grows
              with external communities joining in to influence the outcome.
            

Get $LDAO 
*Coming soon





              Your browser does not support the video tag.
            





            Your browser does not support the video tag.
          





Roadmap


Phase 1

TOKEN GENERATION AND V.1 LAUNCHES


The $LDAO token is created and launched to the public.

                A limited time, single sided $LDAO staking program is released
                and available to token holders.
              

                Release of the initial go-to-market platform. Allowing for
                selected projects to be listed on the LeaderDAO.AI platform.
              



Phase 2

LAUNCH OF THE DAO & LEADERBOARD



                Community members can stake their $LDAO tokens and mint veLDAO
                to vote via the Leaderboard for the token they wish to claim for
                the weekly reward.
              

                The longer staking periods allow users to mint veLDAO with
                leverage. veLDAO can vote on governance proposals that help
                shape the direction of the protocol and will become increasingly
                decentralized over time.
              

                veLDAO permits community members to vote on governance proposals
                that help shape the direction of the protocol and will become
                increasingly decentralized over time.
              

                LeaderDAO.AI members have an initial goal to amass a community
                of strong supporters that can attract projects looking for
                community support in return for tokens devoted solely to
                LeaderDAO.AI members.
              



Phase 3

AI ANALYTICS & DECENTRALIZED GO-TO-MARKET



                LeaderDAO.AI launches the community-driven go-to-market
                platform, attracting projects seeking resources and access to
                its platform.
              

                Our AI analytics information system will allow members to make
                informed decisions using big data and artificial intelligence.
              

                LeaderDAO.AI members are encouraged to vet every project they
                wish to participate in thoroughly. This will give more
                information when determining project support.
              

                Members are granted a tier status based on the amount of veLDAO
                held.
              

                Staking $LDAO allows members to secure allocations for upcoming
                projects that will be brought to the market.
              

                LeaderPools are created based on the need for the project. Once
                the pool is filled, the project can initiate the TGE, and
                members receive the project’s token.
              



Phase 4

LeaderDAO.AI V2 (ABC)



                LeaderDAO.AI will deliver a new flagship version of its
                go-to-market platform, utilizing augmented token bonding curves
                (ABC) while maintaining all AI functionalities.
              

                Bonding curves serve as an excellent framework for crafting
                incentive structures, particularly to benefit early participants
                who invest when the curve is at its lowest point.
              

                Our ABC model emphasises community growth, value stabilisation,
                and sustainable scalability, ensuring a harmonious alignment of
                stakeholder incentives.
              

                This specialized crowdsourcing model allows for projects to
                receive continuous funding for ventures and provides initial
                investors (Hatchers) with additional opportunities.
              







            Your browser does not support the video tag.
          




          Team
        





Eduardo Moreira
Principal Founding Technologist

                  Eduardo Moreira, is a globally accomplished programming expert
                  with a 20-year software management career. He has vast
                  experience working with decentralized technologies like
                  Ethereum and Polkadot. With an MBA and various technical
                  skills, he transforms market disruptions into opportunities.
                






Thomas Wood
Chief A.I. Scientist

                  Thomas Wood, is a distinguished NLP expert from Cambridge. He
                  has been shaping the AI and ML landscape for over a decade.
                  With impactful contributions at Tesco and the NHS, his
                  expertise in advanced ML systems is widely acknowledged and
                  respected.
                







Jose Perez
Director of Technology




Oscar Lugo
Director of Product Design




Emerson Warhman
Chief Code Strategist




Bryan Feinberg
Advisor






























 


Privacy Policy





            Your browser does not support the video tag.
          










