










 
GEOCADDDER – Web Interactive Maps













































































Scroll Top






































 





							mail@geocadder.bg						















				Get in Touch			


 



 


Social-facebook
 



Social-linkedin
 



Twitter
 



Instagram
 



Social-pinterest
 



Skype
 



Whatsapp
 



Tiktok
 


























Home
Services
Portfolio
Blog
 





















































 





							mail@geocadder.bg						















				Get in Touch			


 






Social-facebook
 



Social-linkedin
 



Twitter
 



Instagram
 



Social-pinterest
 



Skype
 



Whatsapp
 



Tiktok
 


























Home
Services
Portfolio
Blog
 






















































 





							Personalized Interactive Maps						

I offer only personalized web interactive maps, designed only for your website, without any plugins! 

























 





							Google Sheets Data						

Bring your Google Sheets data to life by presenting this data as a web interactive map! 






















 










































 





							Digitization and Georeferencing						

Digitization of drawings from paper source to vector format and georeferencing vector maps and drawings! 

























 





							Coordinates transformation						

Transformation between different coordinate systems and conversion between different geo files formats - SHP, GeoJSON, GPX, KML, KMZ, DWG, CAD, ZEM! 




























Top freelancer on Fiverr 



 






















Top freelancer on upwork 


























Fiverr's choice for "interactive maps" 


























Blog 




















Google Maps, Mapbox 



Mapbox and Google Maps Comparison 

Mapbox and Google Maps are two popular mapping platforms that offer various services and tools for creating and displaying maps….






August 14, 2023 










Charging Stations, EV, Web Interactive Maps 



Interactive Maps for the EV Charging Stations 

Interactive maps offer numerous benefits for electric vehicle (EV) charging station networks, enhancing the user experience, operational efficiency, and overall…






August 7, 2023 










WordPress 



The advantages of the personalized custom interactive maps 

Why the personalized custom interactive maps are better than plugins? Custom personalized interactive maps offer several advantages over maps plugins:…






July 10, 2023 













								1							

								2							





















Portfolio 






















 



 





























											Swiss Properties									



























											GoNano Dealers									



























											WZ Battle Buddy									



























											Colorado Springs Mailbox Rentals									



























											ZZP Projecten									



























											Bulgarian Fountains									



























											Voltaage									



























											Begian Breweries									



























											Bellingham									



























											Unsilenced									



























											Restaurant Locator									



























											Lights Projects									



























											Donovan Street									



























											Etihad Rail									



























											Edenderry									



























											Rogues in Paradise									



























											Marble									



























											VMentoring									



























											Architects Holiday									



























											California Botany									



























											Elder Voices									



























											Chemiprobe									



























											Postwege									



























											IPB Agencies									



























											CG Properties									



























											California Landmarks									



























											X4LIME Team									



























											Groot Schiphol Bereikbaar									



























											Jobs Listings									



























											Hurra Talents									



























											NSW EV Fast Charging Stations									



























											Greek POIs									



























											Mize Representatives									



























											CodyRTK Coverage									



























											Marsham Retailers									



























											Dallas Zones									



























											Amsterdam Tour Guide									



























											Rolfson Oil Locations									



























											Global Quantum Locations									



























											Covid-19 Testing Locations									



























											LightEFX Dealers									



























											Fishing Permits									



























											Eltenbergh-Bergherbos									



























											Mr. Amsterdam									



























											SCAD Media Coverage									



























											Explomaker									



























											Vans in Europe									



























											French Colleges									



























											Ghana Mercy									



























											Radio Servers									



























											Aliens									



























											JobTeamByg Departments									



























											Inflows/Outflows									



























											US Auto Carriers									



























											Honey Trust									



























											Coronavirus in Bulgaria									



























											Erling Haaland’s Career									



























											Chicago ZIP Codes									



























											Animated Routes between POIs									



























											Food Points of Interest									



























											Food Delivery Companies									



























											Harry Maguire’s Career									



























											Liverpool Season Fixtures									



























											Starbucks									



























											DTV Stations Transmitters									



























											Custom Markers									



























											Savannah Neighbourhoods									



























											Australia Tour									



























											Satellites Coverage									



























											Colonies Map									



























											Sri Lanka Hotels Map									



























											Bars in Wisconsin									




















































 



 








					Do you like my portfolio?				

If you are interested in some of my personalized services, please contact me to discuss your specific requirements! 






								get in touch							







 






Facebook
 



Linkedin
 



Twitter
 



Instagram
 



Skype
 



Whatsapp
 



Mdi-email
 




















 









 Your name
     
 Your email
     
 Subject
     
 Your message (optional)
     





































 


 


Harry Kay (UK)

GeoCadder was great for communication. The map was delivered quickly and GeoCadder made some revisions to the graphics to embed it in our website. Very happy and we will be working with GeoCadder again!





 


 


Adam Abbott (Australia)

Geocadder is easily one of the best contractors we have hired on this platform. We had a large project for a government entity that required hard deadlines, often significant change requests that came through that needed to be actioned by morning. Geocadder came through every time. If you need any maps based work completed he is your man, don’t even consider anyone else.





 


 


Anna Lisa Knaack (Germany)

Geocadder programmed the map for web use in Javascript and added the legend and the popups. He was a great support for our project team, easy to work with and very flexible and fast. I can definitely recommend him for projects surrounding Javascript, GIS, interactive web maps and Mapbox.





 


 


Hannes Mair (Austria)

Ich hatte individuelle Bedürfnisse an meine Karte gestellt. Geocadder hat mein Feedback bei den Revisionen VOLLSTÄNDIG eingearbeitet. Die Kommunikation war unkompliziert und angenehm. Ich gebe normalerweise keine ausführlichen Feedbacks ab, aber in diesem Fall muss ich eine Ausnahme machen, weil die Arbeit mit Geocadder ausergewöhnlich gut war! Maximale Punktezahl und extrem empfehlenswert!








 


Julian Solovyov (USA)

Geocadder is awesome! Amazing at communicating, Quick to answer, and simply great at creating these projects. I told GeoCadder what I wanted and was Suprised how perfectly they were able to bring my idea to life! If you’re in the market for an interacted Map or a project on MapBox I cannot recommend Geocadder enough!!





 


 


Amir Muhaisen (Jordan)

geocadder is a brilliant interactive map designer …. the delivery was as expected , and i will order again and recommed geocadder skills to my connections





 


 


Francis Rivera (Malta)

Extremely professional, reliable, clear and efficient developer! Thanks a million for solving the map issue that we had and making it all work perfectly well. I hope we will be able to work together soon again.





 


 


Scott Zerby (USA)

Really enjoyed worthing with Geocadder. He fully understood the job and worked hard to make everything work better than expected. Would hire again in a heartbeat.





 


 


Max Zaporoshenko (Australia)

Geocadder is excellent at what he does. Helped me with a complex project and in a very short timeframe.





 


 


Justin Gaudreau (Canada)

Geocadder was amazing to work with!! He was professional, skillful, quick to deliver quality work and very responsive to my message. I would completely recommend using his services!





 


 


David Powell (USA)

I love working with Geocadder. He’s always pleasant, quick to respond, and professional.





 


 


Carlos A. Virreira (Netherlands)

Geocadder is a good professional with good communication skills. Happy to work again with him in the future.





 


 


Michael Staxen (Denmark)

Great working with geocadder, super communication and great understanding of the needs and the minor adjustments needed.





 


 


Stephen Baghdadi (Australia)

Very no fuss. Geocadder was able to take minimal information and create exactly what we needed in a very short time.





 


 


Jeff Wilson (USA)

Loved working with Geocadder. Completed project fast with all my needed features. Also communication was great. Strongly recommend.





 


 


Virginia Katsimpiri (Greece)

Amazing work, congrats! Can’t wait to work together for our second map 😉





 


 


Francesco Semeraro (France)

Very good job. Good sense of what we need . I did not have to explain every bit of detail





 


 


Luke Lavanway (USA)

Solid work for a good price. The end product was an attractive and useful interactive map. Would happily work with the seller again.





 


 


Robert Reimann (Germany)

A very positive experience from start to finish. Our Mapbox project works and looks great.





 


 


Nathan Mowery (USA)

Amazing job and great to work with.





 


 


Samuel Mormando (USA)

Very easy to work with. Delivered as promised.





 


 


Niall Cole (Ireland)

Geocadder is great to deal with. Very good communication and completed the job exactly as I needed. Will definitely hire for future projects. A+++





 


 


Stephen Rice (USA)

He is very, very good








 


Katherine McNamara (USA)

Geo did an amazing job and I will be using him in future projects of this type again! Thank you for the quick service





 


 


Matt Lindsay (USA)

Seller was very helpful in addressing all my questions about the output and embedding the map on a Squarespace website. Would definitely recommend.





 


 


Justyn Thomas (USA)

Great communication, very skilled





 


 


Steve Gaudio (USA)

He is very skilled, patient and good to work with.





 


 


Amy Sheridan-Hill (UK)

So pleased with the work and great communication thank you so much!





 


 


Chris Sutton (USA)

Excellent communicator. Pleasant and easy to work with. Loved the result. Highly recommend!





 


 


Drew Bryant (USA)

Geocadder was quick, responsive, and easy to work with. Quality was excellent. Highly recommend.





 


 


Stephen Brown (UK)

I was very impressed with the speed, efficiency and end product. Brilliant, we received everything we asked for, which was delivered quickly.





 


 


Vardan Tunian (Armeny)

Seller is very knowledgeable and goes above and beyond to achieve exactly what you are looking for. Communication was excellent – always prompt to reply. I let the seller know that I have to finish a certain set of tasks over the weekend and he managed to get it all done for me. Extremely pleased, and will order again.





 


 


Troy Thompson (USA)

Fast and communicated well!





 


 


Kalvin Braund (Canada)

Great communication and was able to make all the changes I need and asked for right away with no disputes or problems! Very easy to communicate with and impressive work rate. Finished my project faster than expected!





 


 


Joshua (William) Evans (Australia)


very good. easy to work with and got the final product that i was looking for. thank you






 


 


Kris Herbert (New Zealand)

Good communication and work delivered at promised. Very good to work with and I will definitely use again!





 


 


Nigel Corry (UK)

We needed a quick conversion of a DWG to geojsn to use in Mapbox, they were excellent to work with, greate advice and the project was delivered on time.





 

Frank Meier (Switzerland)

Love the work. Great communication and know-how!





 


 


Luca Colling (Luxembourg)

Great work. Communication was pointless and the seller was helpful in setting every data he needed to get, up.





 


 


Albert Merkel (USA)

awesome service and fast turn around. understood the project well, created an automated map.





 


 


Ryan Martin (USA)

Very satisfied. Amazing value. Got what I wanted way ahead of schedule and he made improvements and added feature I didn’t think I needed but they really made the map and features work so much better. Very good at making digital responsive maps from databases. Great speedy service executed at a high technical level. Made an great map product for me.





 


 


Zander Stilger (USA)


Was very helpful throughout my project. Before working with him I reached out to make sure that my ideas were possible to be implemented and after talking pretty thoroughly through it we set up an order and it was completed very quickly! GeoCadder was able to implement all the features I had asked for and was really great at communicating and letting you know what was going on with the project. For each update he also provided pictures and videos showing how the project was coming along.
Would recommend it to anyone wanting to set up any gis or mapping needs.






 


 


Albert Quintero (USA)

geocadder is the best! Great communication and outstanding quality work.





 


 


Samuel Heyligers (Netherlands)

Really awesome work done by Geocadder, works clean and efficient. Great cooperation!





 


 


Benjamin Widener (USA)

Geocadder was able to assist in troubleshooting a map we already created that consisted of a fictional location using imaginary points included from our own team. Geocadder was very insightful. We look forward to working with them again in the future.





 


 


Grant Watkins (USA)

Looks amazing. Very happy with the final product. Hope to work together again in the future.





 


 


Ryan Hoyt (Canada)

Great communication and excellent results. Did exactly as we needed and will be happy to work with them again.





 


 


Debbie Fung (Canada)


Working with this seller has been a delightful experience. He possesses a wealth of knowledge and provides excellent support in crafting a map that meets the customer’s requirements. The resulting map was stunning and precisely as described. The speed of delivery was impressive, and the communication was effortless and seamless. I would definitely collaborate with this seller again in the future!






 


 


Thomas Carpenito (USA)

Geocadder provided a fantastic map for us and his work was amazing. Extremely reliable and capable for any task. Great web developer, highly recommend.





 


 


Jákup Brúsá (Faroe Islands)

Excellent. Quick response. Good quality for money.





 


 


Ajay C Thomas (UK)


The seller has left a remarkable impression on me. I had requested for an interactive map by providing a sample of what I wanted. The seller not only comprehended the task but also communicated with me promptly. To my delight, the seller presented an animated video that showcased the appearance of the map. The seller was incredibly efficient, delivering both the code and the complete files with remarkable speed. I am overjoyed with the quality of work and the swift delivery. Thank you very much!






 


 


Annemarie Rice (USA)


Desislav was a pleasure to work with! We wanted to update our website for our clients to be able to navigate all our locations easily, and I reached out to Desislav to create the Map on Mapbox for me. He was extremely on top of all the work and got edits back to me within an hour each time I had a change. Communication was fast and easy! Our map on the website looks exactly how we wanted it to and have already received compliments from the team. Not only did he make it extremely easy for me to be able to edit the map, he also went above and beyond helping me with coding the map onto our website. Highly recommend!






 


 


Charles Dumont (Canada)

He was very fast, efficient and a pleasure to deal with! Will definitely hire him again!





 


 


Atharv Kulkarni (USA)


I recently had the pleasure of working with geocadder on a project to develop a map for my community.From the moment we began our collaboration, geocadder showed a deep understanding of my vision and goals. They were patient and attentive during our initial discussions, carefully taking note of all my requirements and offering valuable suggestions based on their expertise. The level of communication was top-notch, and they consistently kept me in the loop throughout the entire process.
The final product is truly a work of art. Geocadder’s attention to detail, creativity, and ability to translate my ideas into an engaging and interactive map is simply remarkable






 


 


Mark Perry (USA)

I am very pleased with the diligence, responsiveness and hard work provided on my map project and am very happy with the end result. I strongly recommend Geocadder. Great Working with him/her was a pleasure.





 


 


Mason Logue (USA)

One of the best people I have ever used on Fiverr!! He is the best map producer for Mapbox on all of Fiverr and upwork!! Incredible job! Worth every dollar and best mapper on Fiverr!!





 


 


Edward (Eddy) Rudram (Thailand)

It was very easy to work with Geocadder. I am fairly new to Fiverr, but he explained the process in great detail and was very thorough. We explained to him our needs and expectations, and he was able to deliver on time and with a product we liked. Moreover, Geocadder was able to take on our suggestions for revisions and took the additional time to work on certain formatting issues. He was very helpful, and I would highly recommend hiring him.





 


 


Kevin Moore (UK)

Love this guy! Very informative and helpful! Legend of the maps!





 


 


River Paige (UK)

Went above and beyond to get our map correct with advanced functionality and styling with high attention to detail. Held himself in a professional manor and with a super fast turnaround too. If you are looking for an interactive map – look no further. Geocadder is your guy 🙌





 


 


James Glass (UAE)


Fantastic service!!!! Final product (easy updatable, interactive map) is better than I could’ve hoped for!!! Patience and communication deserves a medal. Going the extra mile to ensure it would work on all devices and that I can continue updating info and map myself.
HIGHLY recommend!!!






 


 


Vadims Sevlakovs (Latvia)

geocadder is very accurate and skilled developer. I`m 100% satisfacted with his work. Highly recommend if you need a professional in your team





 


 


Emily Bauer (USA)


Great to work with! He was available at a moments notice and helped us quickly map shp data and turn it into a KML file. Overall great to work and communicate with and clearly highly skilled. Hope to work with him again!






 


 


James Porter (USA)

Desislav completed the project prior to the deadline, was extremely communicative throughout the project, and had the forethought at the beginning to ask all questions needed making this a very hands off project on my end. I 100% recommend using him for your mapping needs.





 


 


Thomas Texeira (USA)

The filters added worked amazingly. Added so much value to the map. Very responsive and great to work with.





 


 


Richard Holder (USA)

Geocadder did a great job on our mapping project. He patiently guided us through the process and delivered an interactive map that we believe will help us significantly. I highly recommend Geocadder for your mapping projects. He will not disappoint.




























 


mail@geocadder.bg | Web Interactive Maps for Your Website
















Social-facebook
 



Linkedin
 



Twitter
 



Instagram
 



Pinterest
 



Skype
 



Whatsapp
 



Tiktok
 



































































