

    Biden says 14 Americans killed by Hamas in Israel, U.S. citizens among hostages: "Sheer evil" - CBS News













Freed Hostage Speaks




Jenna Ellis




House Speaker Vote




UAW Expands Strike




CBS News Live




Managing Your Money




Newsletters


















News




US




World




Politics




Entertainment




HealthWatch




MoneyWatch




CBS Village




Technology




Science




Crime




Sports




Essentials








Newest GOP speaker nominee intends to take bid to House floor today




Hurricane Otis weakens after hitting Mexico as dangerous Category 5 storm




If Israel does "destroy Hamas," who will lead the Palestinians in Gaza?




Biden officials shelve plan to require some migrants to remain in Texas




Off-duty pilot took mushrooms 48 hours before midair scare, prosecutors say




Minnesota poison specialist accused of fatally poisoning wife




Richard Roundtree, "Shaft" actor, dies at age 81




Trump and Michael Cohen come face to face at New York fraud trial




Meet Ed Currie, the man behind the world's hottest chili pepper











Shows





CBS Mornings




CBS Evening News




60 Minutes




CBS Saturday Morning




Face the Nation




Sunday Morning




48 Hours




CBS Reports




CBS News Mornings




America Decides




Prime Time with John Dickerson




CBS News Weekender




The Takeout




The Uplift




Eye On America




The Dish




Here Comes the Sun




Person To Person







Live





CBS News Live




CBS News Baltimore




CBS News Bay Area




CBS News Boston




CBS News Chicago




CBS News Colorado




CBS News Detroit




CBS News Los Angeles




CBS News Miami




CBS News Minnesota




CBS News New York




CBS News Philadelphia




CBS News Pittsburgh




CBS News Sacramento




CBS News Texas




Car Chase




CBS Sports HQ




Inside Edition 24/7




Mixible







Local





Baltimore




Bay Area




Boston




Chicago




Colorado




Detroit




Los Angeles




Miami




Minnesota




New York




Philadelphia




Pittsburgh




Sacramento




Texas







More




Latest




Video




Photos




Podcasts




In Depth




Local




A Moment With…




Innovators & Disruptors





Log In




Newsletters




Mobile




RSS




CBS Store




Paramount+




Join Our Talent Community




Davos 2023





Search




Search



Login










Watch CBS News














          Politics
          

Biden says 14 Americans killed by Hamas in Israel, U.S. citizens among hostages: "Sheer evil"




            By Melissa Quinn
          

Updated on:  October 11, 2023 / 1:20 AM
          / CBS News
        



















Biden vows support for Israel 











Biden vows support for Israel as Americans held hostage by Hamas
02:24

Washington — President Biden on Tuesday condemned the Hamas militant group's bloody attacks on Israel that took place over the weekend, calling them an "act of sheer evil" and forcefully declaring that "we stand with Israel."In remarks delivered from the White House alongside Vice President Kamala Harris and Secretary of State Antony Blinken, the president said the people of Israel experienced "pure, unadulterated evil" at the "bloody hands" of Hamas, which has long been designated a terrorist organization by the U.S."This was an act of sheer evil," he said.  






The president revealed that at least 14 Americans are among the more than 1,200 people killed in Israel, and American citizens are also among those being held captive by Hamas, which controls the Gaza Strip.National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said after Mr. Biden's remarks that while he could not confirm the precise number of U.S. citizens who are hostages, there are 20 or more Americans missing. 


"We will work hour-by-hour both to determine whether we can account for any of those Americans, or to confirm exactly the number of Americans held hostage," Sullivan said. "We do not know the number of hostages we have at this time."Mr. Biden emphasized that "in this moment, we must be crystal clear: We stand with Israel. We stand with Israel.""And we will make sure Israel has what it needs to take care of its citizens, to defend itself and to respond to this attack," Mr. Biden said. "There's no justification for terrorism. There's no excuse."
President Joe Biden, accompanied by Vice President Kamala Harris and U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, makes remarks after speaking by phone with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu about the situation in Israel following Hamas' deadly attacks, from the State Dining Room at the White House in Washington, October 10, 2023.

            
                JONATHAN ERNST / REUTERS

                          
Mr. Biden compared the assault on Israel by Hamas to the "worst rampages" of the Islamic State and denounced the "brutality" and "blood-thirstiness" of the group. 


"This is terrorism," he said.The remarks from the president came after Hamas, the Palestinian militant group that rules the Gaza Strip, launched its surprise assault on Israel early Saturday morning, which the Israel Defense Forces has since said left at least 900 dead and roughly 2,700 wounded. Israeli authorities said dozens of people are being held captive by the group.The death toll in Hamas-run Gaza is at least 900, according to the Palestinian Health Ministry, though it is expected to rise as Israel continues to launch airstrikes across the Gaza Strip. Another 4,500 are wounded. Mr. Biden has repeatedly expressed unwavering support for the Jewish state since the terrorist attack, and reiterated in his latest remarks that the U.S. will "stand united, supporting the people of Israel who are suffering unspeakable losses and opposing the hatred and violence of terrorism.""Like every nation in the world, Israel has the right to respond, indeed has a duty to respond, to these vicious attacks," he said.






Biden condemns Hamas attack on Israel, says at least 14 Americans killed | Special Report
18:50

The White House on Monday night was lit in blue and white, the colors of the Israeli flag, as a symbol of "the ironclad support and solidarity of the American people with the people of Israel in the wake of the barbaric terrorist attacks committed by Hamas," according to the White House.Mr. Biden, along with the leaders of France, Germany, Italy and the United Kingdom, also issued a joint statement condemning Hamas and "its appalling acts of terrorism."


"Our countries will support Israel in its efforts to defend itself and its people against such atrocities," the leaders said Monday. "We further emphasize that this is not a moment for any party hostile to Israel to exploit these attacks to seek advantage."They added, "All of us recognize the legitimate aspirations of the Palestinian people, and support equal measures of justice and freedom for Israelis and Palestinians alike. But make no mistake: Hamas does not represent those aspirations, and it offers nothing for the Palestinian people other than more terror and bloodshed."Ahead of his remarks, Mr. Biden met with his national security team to receive an update on the situation in Israel. He and Harris also spoke with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to discuss U.S. support for Israel, the White House said.The U.S. has already moved to provide the Israeli military with additional equipment and resources, including munitions, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said Sunday. He also ordered a carrier strike group to move to the Eastern Mediterranean to strengthen regional deterrence efforts. The munitions being sent to Israel include small diameter bombs and artillery rounds, according to U.S. officials.In addition to surging military assistance to Israel, including ammunitions and interceptors to replenish the Iron Dome, Mr. Biden said he has directed his administration to share intelligence with the Israelis and deploy government experts to consult with and advise on hostage recovery.The president said he will also ask Congress to take "urgent action" to fund the national security requirements of U.S. partners. The House has been in recess since Tuesday following the unprecedented removal of former House Speaker Kevin McCarthy, and the Senate is set to return to Washington next week.


"This is not about party or politics. This is about the security of our world, the security of the United States of America," he said. National Security Council spokesman John Kirby told reporters Monday that the first tranche of security assistance is on its way to Israel."We fully expect that there'll be additional requests for security systems from Israel as they continue to expand munitions in this fight, and we will stay in lockstep with them, making sure that we're filling their needs as best as best we can and as fast as you can," he said.Ellee Watson contributed to this report


Israel & Hamas At War

              More
              






If Israel does "destroy Hamas," who will lead the Palestinians in Gaza?







U.S. intelligence: "Motor failure" of Palestinian rocket caused hospital blast







Israel shows graphic video of Hamas terror attacks as part of "narrative battle"







Gazan journalists risk it all to tell the story as bombs rain down







Freed Israeli hostage explains why she shook a Hamas militant's hand





            More
            
In:
          Israel

First published on October 10, 2023 / 9:21 AM


© 2023 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.


Thanks for reading CBS NEWS. 
Create your free account or log in  for more features.




 Continue 



                Please enter email address to continue
            

                Please enter valid email address to continue
            






























Copyright ©2023 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Terms of Use
About
Advertise
Closed Captioning
CBS News Live on Paramount+
CBS News Store
Site Map
Contact Us
Help


facebook




twitter




instagram




youtube



View CBS News In




CBS News App

Open





Chrome




Safari

Continue



Be the first to know
Get browser notifications for breaking news, live events, and exclusive reporting.
Not Now
Turn On


