'Dishonest': Critics slam Fox News over 'attack-Biden-at-all-costs garbage' - Raw StorySubscriptions
        
    SUBSCRIBE FOR $1
  About usJobsUS NEWSInvestigationsOpinionvideoHELPget the newsletter
    SUBSCRIBE FOR $1
  Home
        Shop to Support Independent Journalism
      TrumpU.S. NewsWorldScienceVideoInvestigationsEthics Policy
               
      
        'Dishonest': Critics slam Fox News over 'attack-Biden-at-all-costs garbage'
    David Badash, The New Civil Rights MovementOctober 10, 2023 9:25AM ET
        Protesters rally against Fox News outside the Fox News headquarters at the News Corporation building, March 13, 2019 in New York City.  (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
    A top Fox News reporter is being criticized for his “dishonest” and “mindless attack” suggesting President Joe Biden wasn’t working much on Monday as world leaders are speaking to each other and with their national security teams about the war in Israel.“With war raging in Israel, the @WhiteHouse called a lid for @JoeBiden at 11:46am,” Fox News anchor John Roberts, a former White House correspondent under three administrations, said on social media Monday.White House Deputy Press Secretary Andrew Bates pushed back, explaining: “For those unfamiliar, a ‘lid’ is just a courtesy announcement to reporters that they should not expect public events.”READ MORE: Georgia GOP Lawmakers Move to Reprimand Willis Over Trump RICO Prosecution“A lid does *not* mean the President has stopped working, as is implied in the *Fox* tweet below,” he added. “On the contrary, he’s working to support Israel all day.”Bates attached a portion of the President’s actions Monday, which included meetings with Secretary of State Tony Blinken, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Jon Finer, Homeland Security Advisor Liz Sherwood- Randall, and White House Chief of Staff Jeff Zients.New York Times DC correspondent Glenn Thrush responded to Roberts’ remarks, saying: “Lids, in my experience, are just as likely to indicate increased activity inside a WH. They are a gauge of public events, briefings etc and not governing activity…”READ MORE: Nancy Mace’s Endorsement of Jim Jordan for Speaker Revives Allegations He Did Nothing to Stop Sexual Abuse at Ohio StateHoward Fineman, the veteran political journalist added: “Yes he works for @FoxNews, but this guy has been around a long time so he surely knows that a daytime ‘lid’ doesn’t mean no activity behind closed doors at the #WhiteHouse, it generally means more. This is pure, mindless attack-Biden-at-all-costs garbage.”“A small thing,” noted Talking Points Memo publisher Josh Marshall, “but yet another illustration of the mode and consequences of the most watched news org in the country routinely lying to viewers. Just as a matter of course. Comes naturally.”Obama and Reagan official White House photographer Pete Souza called it “such a reckless tweet intended for one purpose: to misinform the maga crowd. A lid does not mean the president isn’t working; just that there are no imminent public events (so reporters can leave to get lunch and know they won’t miss anything).”Former TV news director, producer, and journalism professor Jennifer Schulze calledRoberts’ remark “a ridiculous cheap shot. John was a white house correspondent for years so he knows exactly what a ‘lid’ is & what it’s not.”If Roberts’ remark was meant to inflame the base, it was successful.U.S. Senator Tommy Tuberville (R-AL) responded from his official social media account. See the social media posts at this link.
  For customer support contact
  support@rawstory.com. Report typos and corrections to
  corrections@rawstory.com.
Stories Chosen For YouREAD COMMENTS - JOIN THE DISCUSSION
        Should Trump be allowed to run for office?
    
        Staff Bio: M.L.Nestel
    John ByrneOctober 25, 2023
	M.L. Nestel is an award-winning writer and editor whose work has frequently been published in New York Magazine, Los Angeles Magazine, and The Guardian, among other titles. He also produces and writes for TV shows and podcasts. Prior to that, he served on the Newsweek masthead as a Senior Writer, wrote as a Correspondent at ABC News, and held the titles of West Coast Bureau Chief and Senior Writer at The Daily Beast. Priors also include working as Senior National Correspondent at The Daily Mail, and Investigative Reporter at all three NYC tabloids The New York Post,The New York Daily News, and Newsday. He traveled around the country as a National Correspondent at The Daily. M.L. published hundreds of stories about underground music and cinema -- most notably as a Critic for Box Office Magazine and the New York Editor at Soma Magazine. He also headed development at Fountainhead Films. M.L. splits his time between Los Angeles and New York.Read M.L.Nestel's stories.
        Staff Bio: Kathleen Culliton
    John ByrneOctober 25, 2023
	Kathleen Culliton is Raw Story's assistant managing editor. She's been covering local and national news for more than a decade for outlets that include the New York Post, Al Jazeera, DNAinfo New York, Bustle, the New York Daily News, WNYC, NY1, City Limits and the New York City Patch. Kathleen is a proud alumna of the CUNY Graduate School of Journalism. Here's a shocker; she is from New York City. Read Kathleen Culliton's stories.
        'Shut up!': GOPers boo reporter who asks about 2020 election subversion efforts
    David McAfeeOctober 25, 2023A reporter for ABC who was simply asking about the goings on of the Congress was booed by the entire GOP conference Tuesday.House Republicans chose a new speaker-designate, Mike Johnson, in an effort to end the ongoing chaos in the House. A reporter attempted to ask about his record on election denial.CONTINUE READINGShow less Sarah K. BurrisMatt Laslo
        Tom Emmer accused of holding GOP caucus hostage in speaker vote
    Mark Alesia, Investigative Reporter
        GOP congressman — a retired Navy SEAL — uses foreign warship photo in salute to U.S. Navy
    David Badash, The New Civil Rights Movement
        Trump serves up massively false claim about his 91 criminal charges
      
    Copyright © 2023 Raw Story Media, Inc. PO Box 21050, Washington, D.C. 20009 |
    Masthead  |
    Privacy Policy  |
    Manage Preferences | Debug Logs
    For corrections contact
    corrections@rawstory.com, for support contact
    support@rawstory.com.
  {{ post.roar_specific_data.api_data.analytics }}