

Google Nest Thermostat falls to the best price ever at $61


























Menu





ninetofive-toys






chevron-down


Switch Site





YouTube





Facebook





Twitter





Instagram





Podcast



 

Toggle search"







			Search for:		











ninetofive-google


9to5Google


ninetofive-mac


9to5Mac


ninetofive-electrek


Electrek


ninetofive-dronedj


DroneDJ


ninetofive-spaceexplored


SpaceExplored
About 9to5Toys



Do Not Sell My Info


Privacy Settings








Deals
News


Amazon
Apple
LEGO
Best Buy
Smartphone Accessories
Tested with 9to5Toys
TVs
Gaming




YouTube





Facebook





Twitter





Instagram





Podcast



 
















								New all-time low drops the latest Google Nest Thermostat with Matter to $61 (Reg. $130)							



Rikka Altland  - 
Oct. 14th 2023 9:41 am PT



Twitter icon


@rikkaaltland 

AmazonGooglePrime Big Deal Days 





Reg. $130

  $61 
	
chevron-right




  


Comments








Amazon is now offering the latest Google Nest Thermostat for $60.99 shipped. It’s available in only the snow style, and drops from the usual $130 price tag. This is well below any other discount we’ve seen in the past with $69 in savings attached, marking a new all-time low in the process. Today’s offer is an extra $29 under our previous mention from earlier in the week during the fall Prime Day sales event, and is right around the price we typically see for refurbished models. Get a closer look in our hands-on review and then head below for more.

Perfect to help keep your home a consistent temperature as unpredictable fall temperatures begin rolling in, Google Nest Thermostat sports a refreshed form-factor that’s centered around a frosted glass aesthetic with LED display. On top of leveraging Assistant, it can also be tied into schedules and automations, too. It also has some new tricks up its sleeve thanks to Matter support, bringing HomeKit into the mix alongside a wider array of compatible systems than before. 
There are plenty of other Google discounts this week, too. The savings cover just about all of its in-house hardware, but in particular is focusing on the Assistant-enabled offerings in its stable. The best offer around right now is easily on Google’s Pixel Tablet, which on top of being an Android tablet, also doubles as a Nest Hub thanks to an included docking station at $419.
Google Nest Thermostat features:

The Nest Thermostat is designed to work without a C wire in most homes, but for some systems, including heating only, cooling only, zone controlled, and heat pump systems, you’ll need a C wire or other compatible power accessory. Nest Thermostat turns itself down when you leave, so you don’t waste energy heating or cooling an empty home. Programmable thermostat that lets you create an energy efficient schedule in the Google Home app on your Android or iPhone.



Add 9to5Toys to your Google News feed. 
				
	
Google News




FTC: 9to5Toys is reader supported, we may earn income on affiliate links
 Subscribe to the 9to5Toys YouTube Channel for all of the latest videos, reviews, and more! 


 


Guides











								Amazon							

Amazon is the world's largest online retailer, offering daily savings across nearly every category imaginable. In recent years, Amazon has grown to encompass more areas…












								Google							





Prime Big Deal Days





About the Author









Rikka Altland




Twitter icon


@rikkaaltland 





Rikka Altland's favorite gear










											Nintendo Switch										












											Philips Hue Go										
















							UGREEN Pro 13-in-1 4K Triple Display Dock hits Amazon l...						









							Belkin’s 15W MagSafe dock is perfect for StandBy ...						









							Not sold on Ultra 2? Save $170 on the original Apple Wa...						









							Blink smart home gear up to 53% off: All-New outdoor ca...						









							Official Apple Watch Sport Bands start from $40 on Amaz...						









							Score a refurb smart Ring Video Doorbell Wired today fo...						









							Review: ECOVACS’ new X2 Omni robo vacuum justifie...						









							HYPER BOGO 50% off: 27,000mAh 245W Battery Pack, charge...						









					Load more...
				




					Show More Comments				







Popular in the Community


























