


Ex-Playmate Karen McDougal details 'love' affair with Trump 










 

 





























 
























































































































 











 




































Primary Menu





Sections







				Search			




				Search			






	Skip to search results

News
Metro
Page Six
Sports

NFL
MLB
NBA
NHL
College Football
College Basketball


Post Sports+
Sports Betting
Business

Personal Finance


Opinion
Entertainment

TV
Movies
Music
Celebrities
Awards
Theater


Shopping
Lifestyle

Weird But True
Health
Sex & Relationships
Viral Trends
Human Interest
Parenting
Fashion & Beauty
Food & Drink
Travel


Real Estate
Media
Tech
Astrology
Video
Photos
Visual Stories
Sub Menu 1

Today’s Paper
Covers
Columnists
Horoscopes
Games
Sports Odds
Podcasts
Careers


Sub menu 2

Email Newsletters
Official Store
Home Delivery
Tips


 



Search



Email





New York Post






 







			October 25, 2023		





				Search			





Search






Recommended

	Skip to main content

















































































 











 






 







 











News



FacebookTwitter


Flipboard

WhatsAppEmailCopy 




		Ex-Playmate Karen McDougal details ‘love’ affair with Trump — and if she’s backing him again in 2024	


	By
	
Natalie O'Neill



										Social Links for Natalie O'Neill				



View Author Archive




Get author RSS feed


































		Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.	

		Back to Reading	







Published 
May 19, 2023


Updated 
May 19, 2023, 7:46 p.m. ET

















More On:

					karen mcdougal				






								Stone-faced Trump warned to be quiet as he appears virtually in NYC ‘hush money’ case 							





								Inside the sordid history of National Enquirer’s ‘catch and kill’ schemes with Tiger, LeBlanc, Schwarzenegger							





								Who is Karen McDougal? The former Playboy model in the Trump hush-money case							





								Ex-Playmate who allegedly had affair withTrump breaks her silence 							







Ex-Playboy model Karen McDougal revealed intimate details about her “love” affair with former President Trump Friday — while announcing her surprising pick for president in 2024.
“I’m hoping DeSantis gets in. I’d be willing to work for his campaign,” the 52-year-old told the Daily Mail.
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis is expected to announce his own widely anticipated White House bid next week.
McDougal — one of the women at the center of Trump’s Manhattan “hush money” charges — is a lifelong Republican who voted for him in 2016. 
“He can be crass and vulgar, but when he has his kind moments, it’s lovely to see because it shows there’s still a human in there,” she explained. 
“He needs to have more compassion for people in general — a lot more.”
McDougal described a tender 10-month relationship with the married then-reality TV star beginning in 2006.
“I was in love with him. He was in love with me. I know that because he told me all the time,” the actress told the Mail. “He’d say, ‘You’re my baby and I love you.’ He showed me off to his friends.”


5

Karen McDougal said she and Donald Trump met at a pool party at the Playboy Mansion in 2006.
Unlike alleged hush-money recipient Stormy Daniels, who has called sex with Trump, now 76, “the worst 90-seconds of my life,” McDougal harbors no ill will toward the man who would become the 45th president  — and pointed out that he’s never denied their affair.
“His people have denied it, but he’s never denied it,” she said. “A reporter asked him: ‘Did you have an affair with Karen McDougal?’ and all he said was: ‘I’ve done nothing wrong.’
“He knows I’m telling the truth.”


5

“I was in love with him. He was in love with me. I know that because he told me all the time,” McDougal said. Instagram/@karenmcdougal
Diving in with Donald
McDougal first met Trump at a Playboy Mansion pool party in June 2006, which Hugh Hefner threw for contestants of Trump’s “Celebrity Apprentice.”
Trump, who had recently welcomed youngest son Barron with new wife Melania, quickly became smitten with the swimsuit-clad model, she said.
“He followed me around like a puppy dog, trying to get my attention. He took to me so much that the Bunny Mother said: ‘Wow, he really has a thing for you.’”
McDougal recalled that Trump issued a directive to his bodyguard, Keith Schiller: “Keith, get her number.”
The real estate mogul-turned-TV-star called her a few days later and asked her to have dinner at his Beverly Hills Hotel bungalow, where she told the Mail they had sex for the first time after having room service deliver steak and mashed potatoes.


5

McDougal recalled that Trump issued a directive to his bodyguard, Keith Schiller: “Keith, get her number.”SplashNews.com
“After dinner, things heated up and Trump made his move. I was attracted to him, but it wasn’t like I was looking to jump into bed with Donald Trump, on the first night especially,” McDougal said.
She revealed that Trump “offered her money” afterward.
“I was dressed and ready to go, and I saw this stack of cash in his hand. I said, ‘I’m not that kind of girl,” McDougal said. “He knew he’d made a mistake when he saw how upset I was. He told me I was really special.”


5

McDougal, who backed Trump in 2016, hopes Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis “gets in. I’d be willing to work for his campaign.”AP
However, she “cried all the way home” in the car with Schiller and thought that she’d never see the eventual president again.
“But we got past it,” she shared. “I got another call asking me to dinner, and I don’t know why, but I said yes.”
A 10-month affair — in which they saw each other roughly five or more times a month — followed, McDougal said, adding that she now feels “ashamed.”
“I knew he was married but at the time it was out of sight, out of mind. I was a different girl then, having fun and not thinking about things too deeply,” she confessed.


5

McDougal, seen in 2005, “cried all the way home” after Trump offered her money the first time they had sex.Michael Neveux
‘I ended it’
Despite the media’s portrayal of her as a bitter former lover, the former Playmate said she ultimately dumped Trump after striking up a romance with “Die Hard” star Bruce Willis.
“I’m portrayed as the disgruntled woman, but I am not that woman. I ended it,” she said.
She said she was considering breaking up with Trump when “a family member came to town and we went to a bar and I met a lovely man named Bruce,” she said.
“I wasn’t cheating on Trump but Bruce and I were talking on the phone a lot already so that made it easier to end it. Why would I stay with a married man when Bruce was a nice guy, and single?” she explained.

In the months leading up to the 2016 election, she said she agreed to receive a “catch and kill” fee of $150,000 in exchange for not going public with the story of their romance.
“That suited me because I hadn’t really wanted the story to get out. I thought my contract was for work and that it was a win-win situation. I didn’t know the term catch-and-kill at that point. I was a pawn in that scenario because of all the stuff I wasn’t privy to,” she said.
 



Share this article:

FacebookTwitter


Flipboard

WhatsAppEmailCopy 







Filed under



									2024 presidential election								



									affairs								



									donald trump								



									karen mcdougal								



									Ron DeSantis								



									stormy daniels								



									trump indictment								


5/19/23 





Read Next


				San Francisco judge slams city's mayor, DA over record-bre...			

























		Trending Now			
				on NYPost.com			




 


This story has been shared 56,145 times.
56,145






							22-year-old driver who mowed down 4 Pepperdine sorority sisters re-arrested, charges upgraded to murder: police						






 


This story has been shared 30,640 times.
30,640






							Latest migrant poll should scare the hell out of Democrats						






 


This story has been shared 24,393 times.
24,393






							I slept with 300 people in a year — here's what happened when one of my 'regulars' found out						















 










 



 what to shop now
 



 

							Price drop! These Breville machines are cheaper than they've been since 2020						





							When is Way Day 2023? Official dates, 36 early deals and more revealed						





							Amazon's Holiday Beauty Haul event is here, and you can save up to 50% on our must-have products						





							25 best belt bags and fanny packs of 2023 from lululemon, Gucci, more						





							The best last-minute Halloween costumes you can order in time 						














 






Now on
 Page Six













							Justin Timberlake ‘not at all happy’ with ex Britney Spears’ book: report						





							Julia Fox claims Kim Kardashian played a role in Kanye West breakup						





							Chris Pratt sparks debate over throwing out childhood trophies: ‘How many we gotta keep?’						




See All












 








		Video			
 







								Ghosts of the Revolutionary War Haunt NJ's Infamous Spy House							







				Now on				 Decider
















						‘Family Guy’ Brutally Mocks Prince Harry And Meghan Markle For Making Millions On “No One Knows What”					





			See All		







































Karen McDougal said she and Donald Trump met at a pool party at the Playboy Mansion in 2006. 

"I was in love with him. He was in love with me. I know that because he told me all the time," McDougal said.  
Instagram/@karenmcdougal



McDougal recalled that Trump issued a directive to his bodyguard, Keith Schiller: "Keith, get her number." 
SplashNews.com



McDougal, who backed Trump in 2016, hopes Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis "gets in. I'd be willing to work for his campaign." 
AP



McDougal, seen in 2005, "cried all the way home" after Trump offered her money the first time they had sex. 
Michael Neveux







You are viewing

1 of 5

images


Previous Image



Next Image









Advertisement







 



































				More Stories			






										Page Six									





											Jerry O'Connell claims wife Rebecca Romijn didn't have 'any warning' she'd be in John Stamos' memoir										
















										NYPost									





											22-year-old driver who mowed down 4 Pepperdine sorority sisters re-arrested, charges upgraded to murder: police										


















Facebook




Twitter




Instagram




LinkedIn




Email




YouTube








Sections & Features

News
Metro
Sports
Sports Betting
Business
Opinion
Entertainment
Fashion & Beauty
Shopping
Lifestyle
Real Estate
Media
Tech
Health
Travel
Astrology
Video
Photos
Visual Stories
Alexa
Covers
Horoscopes
Sports Odds
Podcasts
Columnists
Classifieds


Post Sports+

Subscribe
Articles
Manage


Newsletters & Feeds

Email Newsletters
RSS Feeds
NY Post Official Store
Home Delivery

Subscribe
Manage Subscription


Delivery Help


Help/Support

About New York Post
Customer Service
Apps Help
Community Guidelines
Contact Us

Tips
Newsroom
Letters to the Editor
Licensing & Reprints
Careers
Vulnerability Disclosure Program




Apps

iPhone App
iPad App
Android Phone
Android Tablet
Advertise

Self Service
Media Kit
Contact




 


© 2023 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Terms of Use
Membership Terms
Privacy Notice
Sitemap


				Your California Privacy Rights			

Do Not Sell My Personal Information


























Share Link




click to copy



























 

















 



