





The Reckoning: the Jimmy Savile cover-up the BBC doesn’t want you to see


































































































































Jump to content










		UK News Website of the Year
	


The Telegraph logo













						News
					







						Ukraine
					







						Royals
					







						Sports
					







						Opinion
					







						Travel
					







						Life
					







						Entertainment
					







						Business
					







						Puzzles
					















        US Edition
    










                    UK Edition
                









Search Icon








											Subscribe now
										

											Free for one month
										








									Log in
								












					See all Entertainment
					
	









						TV & Streaming
					







						Movies
					







						Music
					







						Books
					














Sections








        US Edition
    










                    UK Edition
                










News







										News home
									



										UK news
									



										Politics
									



										World
									



										Health
									



										Defence
									



										Science
									



										Education
									



										Environment
									



										Investigations
									



										Global Health Security
									





Sport







										Sport home
									



										Football
									



										Rugby World Cup
									



										Cricket
									



										F1
									



										Golf
									



										Tennis
									



										Women's Sport
									



										Racing
									



										Cycling
									



										Boxing
									



										More... 
									













Money







										Money home
									



										Property
									



										Tax
									



										Pensions
									



										Banking
									



										Investing
									



										Net Zero
									



										Calculators
									



										Guides
									

















Business







										Business home
									



										Alex
									



										Economy
									



										Companies
									



										Markets
									



										Tech
									





Opinion







										Opinion home
									



										Obituaries
									



										Letters to the Editor
									



										Telegraph View
									



										Our columnists
									



										Cartoons
									









Ukraine







										Ukraine home
									



										Daily podcast
									



										Daily newsletter
									





Royals







										Royals home
									



										King Charles III
									



										Queen Camilla
									



										Prince William
									



										Princess of Wales
									



										Prince Harry
									



										Duchess of Sussex
									









Life







										Life home
									



										Family
									



										Columnists
									



										Cookbook
									



										Food & Drink
									



										Health & Fitness
									



										Tel Mag
									



										Cars
									



										Puzzle News
									



										Gardening
									



										Recommended
									





Style







										Style home
									



										Fashion
									



										Beauty
									



										Luxury
									



										Interiors
									



										Weddings
									





Travel







										Travel home
									



										UK holidays
									



										Dream Trips
									



										Destinations
									



										City guides
									



										Hotels
									



										Cruises
									



										Rail
									



										Adventure
									



										Luxury
									



										Ask the experts
									









Culture







										Culture home
									



										TV
									



										Film
									



										Music
									



										Books
									



										Theatre
									



										Opera
									



										Art
									



										Gaming
									



										Hit lists
									



										Telegraph Tickets
									



										More...
									





Puzzles

















        US Edition
    










                    UK Edition
                













								Subscribe now
							

								Free for one month
							









Log in

Login icon






Follow us on:




Facebook icon







Instagram icon







Twitter icon







Snapchat icon







LinkedIn icon







YouTube icon










More from The Telegraph




								Download our app
							



								Newsletters
							



								Telegraph Extra
							



								Wine Cellar 
							



								Recommended
							



								Financial Solutions
							



								Events
							



								Betting
							



								Dating
							



								Offers
							



								Travel offers
							



								Shop
							



								Garden shop
							



								Bookshop
							



								Tickets
							



								Puzzles
							



								Fantasy Football
							



								Work at The Telegraph
							



								Telegraph Corporate
							



								Help and support
							



								The Chelsea Magazine Company
							



								Broadband and Mobile Deals
							



								Voucher codes
							


See top shops







												Samsung
											



												Nike
											



												ASOS
											



												eBay
											



												Currys
											



												Wayfair
											



												TUI
											



												JD Sports
											



												Travelodge
											



												Adidas
											



												Broadband deals
											



												Cheap broadband
											



												Broadband in my area
											



												Broadband and TV deals
											



												Mobile deals
											



												SIM-only deals
											


























			The Jimmy Savile drama the BBC doesn’t want you to see
		

			The Corporation’s shameful attempts to conceal Savile’s grotesque crimes would make a far braver, more honest drama than The Reckoning
		






By
Robin Aitken




		10 October 2023 • 9:00am
	



























				Steve Coogan as Jimmy Savile in The Reckoning
			

Credit: Matt Squire
			







So what is the BBC hoping to gain by broadcasting a series of programmes examining in great detail the depraved life of Jimmy Savile? What exactly are we being sold here? There is one simple question that I would like answered by the BBC; why have you commissioned these programmes? What are they for? Is it that you think we, the licence fee payers, have not heard enough already about Savile? It is, after all, only 18 months since Netflix produced three hours of rather good documentary TV about Savile. That series demonstrated the way that Savile, from lowly beginnings, wormed his way into national life and became an Establishment darling. I reviewed the Netflix series at the time, and the production team did an excellent job. Which is why it’s hard to grasp why we now need to be treated to another four hours devoted to Savile. Inevitably the programmes cover the same ground with some differences; for one thing the BBC is offering us a docudrama, The Reckoning, with Steve Coogan taking the role of Savile. The BBC’s offering also includes moving interviews with some of Savile’s victims; yet they don’t honestly add anything much to our understanding. We knew already about his wickedness, his cruelty, his perverted lusts and the rank hypocrisy of his “charity” work. So we come back to the question: why has this series been made?There is a simple, if cynical, answer; lurid tales of sex and celebrity have always drawn an audience. And there is no more sleazy story in the annals of British showbiz than the tale of Jimmy Savile. So maybe Charlotte Moore, the BBC’s “Chief Content Officer” when presented with this treatment for a docudrama about Savile thought: “That’s a winner; they won’t be able to resist this!” But perhaps this is doing Moore an injustice: even a BBC commissioning editor wouldn’t be that cynical? There must be a higher purpose?









Clearly, the message the BBC would like to send by commissioning these programmes is this: “Look, we know we done wrong over Savile but now we’re confessing all – here is the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth.” But there is a problem. If you’re going to make a public confession of wrongdoing, then you have to come clean in every way. You have to go the full sackcloth and ashes, and the BBC very much hasn’t. The series may contain strong criticism of the BBC but the man it puts mostly in the frame is Bill Cotton, BBC head of Light Entertainment and one of the BBC executives responsible for propelling Savile to stardom.Mr Cotton conveniently died in 2009, so the programme can safely pin the blame on him. And Savile certainly had a good relationship with Cotton – he attended the 2009 memorial service for the executive – but it is much too easy to ascribe Savile’s rise to BBC eminence to one man. Other executives, other senior producers were in on the act. But that is not the main problem with The Reckoning; rather it is that they stop at exactly the point where the BBC’s own decidedly shabby cover-up started in earnest. The series more or less finishes with Savile’s death in 2011, but it’s what happened in 2012 that showed the BBC at its worst.















				Jimmy Savile launching Jim'll Fix It at Television Centre in 1074
			

Credit: Getty
			




Savile died in October 2011 and, almost immediately, a Newsnight investigative team bravely set to work on exposing the dead star’s wrongdoing (if you are wondering why it didn’t happen while he was still alive the answer, of course, is that Savile threatened legal action against anyone who made allegations against him). The Newsnight producer Meirion Jones, working with reporter Liz MacKean, with the full backing of their editor, set about discovering the truth. They found plenty of damning evidence and their report was scheduled for transmission in early December. And then it was mysteriously pulled; the editor decided he no longer wanted it. Coincidentally, and with absolutely no bearing on the Newsnight story (or so the BBC claimed) the BBC was also planning a Christmas Special celebrating Savile’s career. That programme duly went ahead.In the subsequent BBC inquiry into why the Savile story was dropped that decision was labelled “flawed”. That’s being overly polite. Thwarted by the BBC, Meirion Jones then took the courageous decision to give all his material to ITV who then – in the autumn of 2012 – broadcast their shattering expose of Savile. The whole episode plunged the BBC into crisis; a newly appointed Director General lost his job through his calamitous handling of the fallout and the Corporation’s name was dragged through the mud. 















				Newsnight journalists Meirion Jones and Liz Mackean, whose reporting on Savile was stifled by the BBC
			

Credit: Getty
			




Liz MacKean, the Newsnight reporter, told me that when the crisis was at its height she felt she was treated like “the enemy” by the BBC hierarchy. Liz, who died tragically young in 2017, was furnished with BBC lawyers although, as she said, all she had done was her job as a reporter; her only “sin” was to have uncovered Savile’s appalling behaviour and she didn’t see why she needed lawyers.At the press launch for The Reckoning, Charlotte Moore and the production team stoutly defended their decision not to tell  this part of the story. The cover-up would take up a “whole separate drama”, they said. To an uninitiated viewer, one who doesn’t know the background, these programmes might look “brave” because they show Savile, warts and all. But to me – at the time and still now – the cover-up, the deliberate muzzling of the BBC’s own journalism was unforgiveable. The real test of any organisation is what happens when things go badly wrong – which they inevitably sometimes will – because that’s the moment when moral courage is called for. And in the Savile case there was no moral courage on display from the Corporation’s hierarchy.In case you think I am over-egging this, remember too that in all the recent BBC scandals – the Martin Bashir/Princess Diana interview scandal, for instance – the Corporation’s first instinct has been to try to protect its reputation by covering up wrongdoing. The BBC was duped by Savile, but so was half the British establishment; sly and cunning deviants will always be able to run rings round honest men because most of us, most of the time, take people on trust. 















				Steve Coogan in The Reckoning
			

Credit: Matt Squire
			




The “sin” is not the gullibility or the original mistake, it’s the cover-up – the refusal to squarely face up to one’s real faults. The Reckoning tells part of the monstrous Jimmy Savile story; what a lost opportunity not to have gone one step further and looked deep into the institutional failings at the BBC which his story illuminated.Going back to my original question, I have a strong suspicion that the real reason these programmes were made was because they will get good ratings; the public will feast vicariously on the depravity. There are other monsters – the Yorkshire Ripper, the Moors Murderers, Fred and Rosemary West – whose stories are catnip for True Crime enthusiasts and TV commissioning editors pander to them. Now Savile has been added to that horrible list. But unless it was determined to tell the story in its embarrassing entirety, how very much better it would have been for the BBC to let him and his grotesque sexual deviancy lie undisturbed. We don’t need Savile served up as true crime fodder –least of all by the organisation that nurtured him, groomed him for stardom and inflicted him on the entire country. 






Related Topics



						BBC,
					



						Steve Coogan,
					



						Jimmy Savile
					









Twitter Icon







Facebook Icon







WhatsApp Icon







Email Icon









Comment speech bubble icon










Comments



                    The Telegraph values your comments but kindly requests all posts are on topic, constructive and respectful. Please review our 
                    
                        commenting policy.
                




                        You need to be a subscriber to join the conversation.  Find out more 
                        
                            here.
                    


                            Log In
                        

                            Subscribe
                        




Show comments
















Advertisement




More stories








Related Topics



						BBC,
					



						Steve Coogan,
					



						Jimmy Savile
					









Twitter Icon







Facebook Icon







WhatsApp Icon







Email Icon








Save







Comment speech bubble icon






















More from TV









What’s on TV tonight: Milli Vanilli, Life On Our Planet and more








By
Telegraph Reporters



25 Oct 2023, 8:05am























Homeland star Mandy Patinkin: ‘As a Jew I am not cancelling my tour’








By
Stuart Husband



25 Oct 2023, 7:00am























The Milli Vanilli story: from being ‘better than McCartney’ to being exposed as frauds
























			4/5
		






By
Anita Singh



25 Oct 2023, 7:00am























The female prison governor showing celebrities what life inside is really like








By
Abigail Buchanan



24 Oct 2023, 4:10pm























From agenda-setter to albatross: what went wrong for Newsnight








By
Robin Aitken



24 Oct 2023, 1:00pm























‘She just couldn’t cope’: Why Amanda Abbington left Strictly, according to show insiders








By
Marianka Swain



24 Oct 2023, 10:30am





















More from The Telegraph








Voucher Codes 
	







			The latest offers and discount codes from popular brands on Telegraph Voucher Codes
		










			GoPro discount code
		












			Groupon discount code
		












			Bloom & Wild discount code
		












			National Trust discount code
		












			Wayfair discount codes
		












			MADE.com discount codes
		















The Telegraph






Back to top






Follow us on:




Facebook icon







Instagram icon







Twitter icon







Snapchat icon







LinkedIn icon







YouTube icon














Help Centre


About us


Telegraph Extra


Reader Prints


Branded Content


Syndication and Commissioning


Guidelines


Privacy


Terms and Conditions


Advertising Terms


Fantasy Sport


UK Voucher Codes


Betting Offers


Modern Slavery


Tax Strategy


Broadband and Mobile Deals


Wine Cellar


The Chelsea Magazine Company





© Telegraph Media Group Limited 2023











