




Solid Security Review 2023 | What Makes it a Powerful WordPress Security Plugin



























































































Skip to content 





 
 
Menu 





 
Menu 
Start Blog
Category

SEO
Deals
Blogging
WordPress
Interview
Testimonial
Blogging Course


Review

Hosting
Theme
Plugin
Web Apps


Discount

Live Deals
Appsumo Deals


Tool Box
 




Solid Security Review 2023 | What Makes it a Powerful WordPress Security Plugin

Archana
  Plugin
  25 October 2023









Home • Plugin • Solid Security Review 2023 | What Makes it a Powerful WordPress Security Plugin
Disclosure – We use affiliate links on our website, meaning if you buy any product through these links, we will earn a small commission but for this, you don’t have to pay any extra money. We appreciate your support. Read More →
 


If are you looking for a complete and robust WordPress security solution then you are at the right place? I am going to cover all those points in this Solid Security Review that you must know about.
Do you know? According to W3Techs, WordPress is used by 43% of all the websites (including known CMS + custom-built websites) that are live on the internet.
But when we compile data of known CMS only then WordPress is far ahead of any other content management system with a 65% market share.
This is tremendous data that indicates WordPress’s popularity and usability. But did you know why WordPress is the most popular and #1 choice of every digital marketer?
Because it is quite a secure and open-source content management system that lets you build almost every kind of website that you ever imagined.
Apart from this, it also supports thousands of third-party themes and plugins that enhance WordPress’s potential so that you can make your WordPress website even better.
But remember one thing, sometimes using these third-party plugins and themes can make your site vulnerable, and as a result, your website becomes an easy target for hackers.
Do you know? According to some surveys, 30,000 websites are hacked every day and if we talk about WordPress websites, it is mostly due to vulnerable plugins (about 97%).

Pin
Here is some other data (Published on SolidWP) regarding website security that you must know and it will help you to figure out whether you should take some action to keep your site secure or not,

20-40% of WordPress sites have vulnerable code right now.
20% of businesses nearly faced bankruptcy after a cyber attack (2022).
the average cost of a data breach for businesses with fewer than 500 employees was $2.98 million in 2021.
1,779 Vulnerabilities disclosed in WordPress-related plugins, themes, and the core WordPress platform in 2022.
50% Nearly half of all targeted cyberattacks prey on small- to medium-sized businesses
The United States saw a 57% jump in cyberattacks as hackers increased their efforts to exploit vulnerable websites with unhardened security practices

By seeing these data you can easily find out that cyber-attacks are happening at a huge level and if you are serious about your business then you must be one step ahead with respect to securing your website/ business from any possible threat. 
That is why I have come up with this post that will help you learn more about security threats and how to keep your business safe and secure more efficiently. 
So, keep on reading,



							Table Of Contents						

Why Do You Need WordPress Security?What is Solid Security?Background of Solid Security PluginSolid Security Sister PluginI: Solid BackupsII: Solid CentralSolid Security Features and Functionality1: Dynamic & Customizable Security Dashboard2: Patchstack IntegrationHow Patchstack Works3: Regular Security Scanning4: Multiple Secure Login FacilityA: Two Fact Authentication (2FA)B: Passwordless Login with Email Magic LinkC: Biometric Login with Passkey5: Brute Force & Automated Attack Protection6: Built-in reCAPTCHA for Bot Traffic Protection7: Privilege of Temporary Access8: Trusted Device and Safe Browsing9: File Change Detection10: Security Log and Version Management11: User Security Checks and Password Requirements12: Integration with Solid CentralStrong Reason to Purchase Solid Security ProSolid Security Pro Pricing StructureSolid Security Free vs Pro (Comparison)Getting Started with Solid Security ProSolid Security vs Wordfence SecurityFAQs Related to Solid Security ProFinal Thought on Solid Security ReviewSolid Security Pro Review 2023 



Pin
Why Do You Need WordPress Security?
However, WordPress itself comes with robust security features that protect your website amazingly. But why do you take any chance, be extra cautious, and not give any chance to hackers to perform any malicious activity?
In such cases, you have two options to protect your website from getting hacked,
Either you check the vulnerability level of each plugin, theme, and other factors continuously that lead to your site being hacked OR else,
You can use a specialized tool that helps you automate your WordPress security checks efficiently and provides an extra layer of protection to keep your site safe against any unexpected threat.
I know manual checking could be nearly impossible but there are plenty of WordPress tools available in the market that can make your job super easy.
So, here is the game changer WordPress Plugin called “Solid Security – A Complete Security Solution for Your WordPress Website”.
In this post, I will walk you through all the benefits of using the Solid Security Plugin as well as how it can help you protect your site from any potential hacker with bad intentions.
So, without any further delay let’s get started,
What is Solid Security?

Pin
Whenever we talk about WordPress security plugins then Solid Security is one step ahead among all the competitors available in the market. 
Why because it always provides comprehensive & innovative features and functionality that make your job super easy while keeping your site protected. 
Solid Security comes with a simple interface and easy-to-use dashboard so that any non-technical person can also install and configure it for the best security settings.
Solid Security Plugin comes in two variants, FREE and Premium versions. If you see Solid Security Free then it includes all the essential features like 2FA (Two Factor Authentication), Ban Users, Brute Force Attack Prevention, File Change Monitor, Auto Malware Scanning, Database Backup, etc.
The Solid Security Pro version adds numerous advanced security features and functionality that enhance your WordPress security as well as take it to a high level quickly.
Solid Security plugin is a complete toolset of WordPress security that offers a bunch of premium security features and functionality that will overwhelm you. Here, I will cover all the features and functionality offered by Solid Security. So, continue reading this post.
So, if you are serious about your business and looking for a comprehensive WordPress security solution then Solid Security would be the #1 choice for you.

Explore Solid Security Pro

Background of Solid Security Plugin
The Solid Security plugin is the product of SolidWP LLC which comes under the StellarWP brand. Whereas StellarWP is also a Brand of the Liquid Web family. 

Pin
Do you know? Liquid Web has recently completed its glorious 25 years in the industry, which is not an easy achievement. They are known for excellent service with 100% customer satisfaction.
Liquid Web and its family brand offer many incredible products like web hosting, WordPress themes & plugins, and other managed services with a top-notch customer support system.
By seeing this, you can say that Liquid Web has enough experience in providing different types of services that they have gained over the decades and Solid Security is one of them.
So, if you are a blogger, digital marketer, small business owner, or any professional looking for the best, most reliable, and most trusted WordPress security solution then undoubtedly,  Solid Security can be your favorite security plugin.
Solid Security Sister Plugin
Apart from providing a WordPress security plugin Solid also offers two other products that extend the possibility of securing your WordPress website with ease and instantly.
Here are they,

Pin
I: Solid Backups
When a hosting server crashes or your website gets hacked, you will lose your business completely. 
Even though your host backup would not be enough if your server crashes due to site hacks, malware attacks, running bad commands, etc. It will wipe up all your data from the hosting server.
In such a case, you must have a current backup of your website to save your business. So here is the Solid Backups WordPress Plugin has an important role.
Solid Backups comes with a user-friendly interface, and easy-to-use settings with some basic malware scan features that allow you to take a complete backup (manual or automatic) of your site, and store backups off-site (remote server or local drive).
It also helps you to restore/ migrate your entire website without any infected files in a few clicks. BuckupBuddy has some other bunch of features and functionalities that could be helpful in protecting your site.
II: Solid Central

PinPin
If you are a blogger or an agency that manages multiple websites then it may be possible that you may miss out on some important tasks that can lead to your site getting hacked.
It is also time-consuming when you log in to each WordPress dashboard and perform admin and site-related activities. 
So, to overcome this problem, you can use the Solid Central Plugin which will save you a lot of time. It also helps you to monitor and manage all your websites from a single dashboard efficiently. 
Solid Central Plugin has these capabilities

WordPress Core Update
Theme & Plugin Update
Single Click Login
Manage Backup
Password Manage
Client Role Manager
Manage WordPress Settings 
And Much More

So, using Solid Central you can manage your website and perform security checks (with Solid Security Integration) from a single dashboard without wasting much time.
Without any further delay, now quickly get into the topic, and let’s see what features and functionality the Solid Security plugin offers to protect your website.
Let’s get started,
Solid Security Features and Functionality

Pin
Whenever you are going to use a security plugin, you must check the following features for better usability of WordPress Security checks.

Provide a user-friendly and easy-to-use interface
Must have malware scanning and cleaning
Should provide network firewall
Offer brute force login prevention
Two-factor authentication (2FA)
Vulnerability detection and report
And much more

But don’t worry, Solid Security covers all
No matter whether you are a beginner or a professional, Solid Security is for everyone. It offers a wide range of WordPress security features that you can use to protect your website in various ways.
To make you more aware of Solid Security, I am going to explain some essential and amazing features and functionality so you can make the right decision.
Some of these features are included in the Free version but for the advanced features, you must upgrade to the Solid Security Pro Version which makes your site more secure.
Let’s have a look at those features and functionality that make it more popular, flexible, and far better than other WordPress Security plugins available in the market.

Try Solid Security Pro

1: Dynamic & Customizable Security Dashboard

Pin
Solid Security generates a variety of security log files that can help you figure out website health and other activities happening on your website.
These security files have a story of your site activity that contains many securities information such as Has your site been attacked, has your site been infected with malware, were the attacks stopped? And much more.
Can you imagine what would happen if all this information was available on a single page? It could be quite confusing and difficult to find a critical one. Isn’t it? YES
But thanks to Solid Security’s dynamic and customizable dashboard that offers all the security stats in the card format in one place, you can monitor your website security log efficiently.
Apart from that, you can also customize this card according to your need and preference of security stats that you want to see first.
Each security card contains a detailed security activity log that you can use to quickly find more critical, actionable, and digestible information. 
What I mean is that the security cards break down the information from the security check log and make it more easily understandable for you so that you can take appropriate action on time.
2: Patchstack Integration
As we all know cyberattacks are increasing heavily on a daily basis with a lot of complexity. In such cases, WordPress plugin and theme developers can’t always keep up with new vulnerabilities. 
That’s why you need a strong solution to keep your website or business secure from any new possible threat. So, here is the game-changer solution that Solid Security Pro offers. 
Solid Security Pro is now powered with Patchstack to provide an extra security firewall for immediate WordPress security solutions via virtual patches.
How Patchstack Works
You may be very cautious when it comes to maintaining WordPress security strong. But, you can’t be the best everywhere all the time. Even themes and plugin developers can’t always update themselves with new vulnerabilities that leave your site vulnerable and at risk for unforeseen attacks.  
Here Patchstcak plays an important role in keeping your WordPress Website security one step ahead against new threats. Patchstack offers “Always-on” automated protection by instant deploying virtual patches on your website as and when any new vulnerability is detected. 
No matter how quickly you are addressing new threats, Solid Security Pro with Patchstack takes care of it for you. Patchstack’s automated web application blocks the attack and shields the vulnerability from being exploited. 
That means Patchstack Always-on, automated protection is there to fill the until your theme or plugin developer releases a security patch. So, no more worrying about whether your website is vulnerable. Your WordPress website is protected until an actual fix is released. 
Here is some best advantage of Patchstack,  

You will be notified 48 hours before the vulnerability becomes public on Patchstack’s database. 
Patchstack will deploy Automatic virtual patches and enable firewall rules on your website. 
Patchstack will lock the Attack attempts so that Attackers cannot exploit the vulnerability. 
Solid Security will automatically update the software to a fixed version to remove the vulnerability.

Overall, I must say that this is a quite beneficial initiative that Solid Security has taken to keep your WordPress Security one step ahead. Integration with Patchstack to Solid Security provides additional security shields to your site from any new possible threat that creates a problem in the future.
3: Regular Security Scanning

Pin
As you are using multiple themes, plugins, and third-party services to enhance and scale your business performance. 
In that case, it could be more difficult and time-consuming to perform manual security checks for each one by one to find vulnerable products or services. 
But it is not going to happen anymore,
Solid Security plugin has the solution for you, by using the site scan scheduling feature you can automate your WordPress security checks twice a day.
When this setting is enabled, Solid Security will scan your entire website automatically and check several key areas that can make your site an easy target for hackers.
It checks for vulnerable themes, plugins, WordPress core, site errors, blacklist status, and known malware. Solid Security will update the vulnerable version automatically and also keep you informed if your attention is required. 
Solid Security is partnered with WPScan which has a comprehensive database of 30,000 vulnerabilities (which are consistently updated with new vulnerabilities). 
That means you can be first to know about potential vulnerable problems before hackers and take appropriate action to fix them to keep your site more secure.
4: Multiple Secure Login Facility
Do you know? Unauthorized access to your website could be dangerous for your website if you don’t have strong login credentials. 
However, it may be possible that hackers may crack your login username and password to hack your website. 
In such a case, you must enable an extra security function on top of the login credential to secure your admin dashboard. 
Don’t worry, 
Solid Security Plugin offers multiple secure login methods that you can use to keep your site secure and avoid unauthorized access via brute force attack instantly.
Here are they,
A: Two Fact Authentication (2FA)

Pin
It is also called 2 Step Verification which means you require two separate methods to log in to your WordPress account. If you’re still using only a password to log in to your account then you are making a big mistake.
You must enable it ASAP to avoid automated attacks, targeted attacks, and phishing attacks that may happen on your site. Google also recommend it as 2FA is 100% effective against such type of attacks.
By using Solid Security, you can leverage the power of two-factor authentication features to add an extra layer of security and strengthen WordPress login. 
After activating this functionality, your WordPress login requires mobile app authorization, sensitive emailed code, or backup code on top of the password to log in to your WordPress account. 
B: Passwordless Login with Email Magic Link
It is one of the incredible features that Solid Security offers to protect your website from unauthorized login or brute force attacks.
Suppose your WordPress username is “Admin12345” and unfortunately it was used in Brute Force Attack? In such a case, this username would be locked by the Solid Security Local Brute Force Protection feature. 
As a result, you won’t be able to access your WordPress dashboard until you deactivate the Solid Security Plugin via the hosting control panel or you can also wait for the lockout time to be over. 
That is why Magic Link came to rescue you. It is the advanced feature of Solid Security that enables you to access your WordPress account even if your Username is locked by Local Brute Force Protection Functionality.
Using this amazing feature, you can request a magic link via email (associated with the user) to bypass lockout time. You can use this authorized unique link for a successful login to your WordPress site while brute force attackers will remain locked out. 
Note: Although you have the magic link still you need your username and password to log in to your WordPress Dashboard. Apart from that if you have enabled 2FA you will need to authorize your login again with the method you selected for two-factor authentication.

Pin
Apart from that you can directly log in to your website dashboard using Email Magic Link without providing any username & password or performing the 2FA process.
Once this feature is enabled in the Solid Security setting, you and the site user will be asked for an email magic link on the WordPress login page. 
When you click on the “Email Magic Link” button you will receive a unique login link over the associated email. 
You just need to click on the “Login Now” button in the email and you can securely access your WordPress site without providing a password or 2FA code.
That means now you don’t need a complicated password and use an extra two-factor authentication method to log in to your WordPress.
C: Biometric Login with Passkey

Pin
This is an amazing and innovative way to securely login to your WordPress site that has been recently added by Solid Security in the Pro Version which provides you with a passwordless login experience. 
In other words, you can say that a biometric login with a passkey is a more convenient, secure, and easiest way to log in to your WordPress admin area. It is one of the best features that keeps Solid Security one step ahead in the competition.
When you use this feature, it is almost impossible to crack your login details as you are using biometric authentication methods like fingerprint, face recognition (iPhone FaceID) on your MacBook, Windows Hello, and many others to log in to your WordPress admin area.
Unlike passwords, it is the unique part of your body and not going to be stored on a server that can’t be compromised at all by hackers.
Solid Security Biometric Login with passkey is amazingly secure your WordPress login that supports all major browsers like Chrome, Safari, and Firefox.
After all, biometric login with Passkey is the most advanced and secure login technology available in the market that you must enable to protect your business and sleep worry-free.

Pin
Note: Solid Security is the first Security Plugin available in the market that offers Biometric Login ( with Passkey to access your WordPress site without disclosing your username and password.

Get Solid Security Pro

5: Brute Force & Automated Attack Protection
You can’t stop hackers from attacking your site but you can surely prevent those attacks from being successful and keep your site protected against any possible threat. 
The Brute force attack method is one of those attacks where hackers perform unauthorized login attempts with unlimited passwords to get access to your site admin area.
In other words, you can say that brute force attack is a major threat that is often used by hackers/ bots to crack your WordPress login credential. 
The software used in brute force attacks is so powerful that it can go up to 1000 different password variations per minute until it gets the right one.
If you are using a weak and compromised password then there will be a higher chance of cracking your password for hackers. 
But don’t worry,
Solid Security offers advanced brute force attack protection as well as ban user functionality to keep your site away from any suspicious login attempt like brute force attack, DDoS attack, or malicious bot attack. 
As soon as Solid Security detects multiple failed login attempts, it blocks that IP address, and the user immediately as well as adds it to the Solid brute force banned list network (community of over 1 million Websites).
That means this IP address and the user will be banned for every website that has joined the Solid Security Community.  
That is how millions of websites get secured instantly from unauthorized access and stay protected from any potential hackers and their malicious activity.

Pin
6: Built-in reCAPTCHA for Bot Traffic Protection
As I have discussed earlier, brute force attacks in which hackers try to unauthorized access your website through software or malicious bots attack. 
but there are several other ways that bad bots try to get access to your websites such as spam comments, spam registration, and brute-force login attempts. Apart from that bad bots can scrap your entire content too and can be misused.
So, by using Solid Security’s built-in reCAPTCHA feature you can add an extra layer of WordPress security. It uses risk analysis techniques to keep humans and bots apart.
If you have enabled reCAPTCHA on your site then the user will be asked to solve some security questions, complete tasks, or provide given codes (difficult to read) before you submit the registration form, post a comment, or log in to your account. 
As a human, these tasks can be performed easily whereas bad bots can’t. That is how you can protect your website from spammy bots that actually want to get unauthorized access to your website.
Pin
7: Privilege of Temporary Access
As a website or business owner, you may need to provide admin access to your developer or any outside person for website-related help.
To do so you need to create user accounts every time with the essential role so that they can perform the required job from time to time. 
Whenever you add a new user to your website, it could make your site vulnerable and it becomes easy for hackers to exploit.
In such a case giving temporary admin access to your website would be a more secure and preventive method in order to protect your business from any unexpected malicious attack.
That’s why the Solid Security Temporary Privilege Escalation feature plays an important role here. It allows you to provide temporary access to developers or technical support for necessary assistance in the easiest and most secure way. 
When you create a new universal support user, you have complete control over that user’s access such as how long he can access your website? What will be his role on your site?
That means you don’t have to create a new user account every time you require help, just keep on updating the new email of the user and set the time and role for the active user.
The best part of using the temporary privilege escalation feature is that new support users will have to use a two-factor email method to log in to your site that complies with your site’s security policy. 
Apart from that, you don’t have to change any password or remove the user, this privilege will automatically stop after the given time period (by default it would be 24 hours but you can change it as per your requirement).
8: Trusted Device and Safe Browsing

Pin
It is quite an amazing feature that Solid Security offers to protect your website from unauthorized access to your website.
By enabling this feature, you can protect your site against brute force attack and frequent malicious bot attack which is intended to damage your site.
The trusted device access feature is quite helpful when you have multiple users on your website from different locations. This feature adds an extra security layer to your site to avoid unrecognized device login. 
Solid Security identifies the user’s device type that is often being used for logging into the site admin area and ensures that only authorized device users can get access to your website.
When the plugin detects login from an unauthorized device, it blocks the user capability automatically in order to protect your site from any malicious activity done by hackers. Along with that Solid Security also sends you an email with options to block unknown devices.
I mean to say that even if a hacker gets access to your website he can’t perform any malicious activity in your WordPress admin dashboard as his user role has been disabled due to login by using an unknown device.
Apart from that Solid Security provides Google Safe Browsing Integration so that your website never gets listed in Google’s blocklist websites. 
If your website is flagged in Google’s blocklist due to malware, Solid Security will notify you via email of the potential threat infection so that you can take preventive action against it.

Buy Solid Security Pro

9: File Change Detection
No matter how you have secured your website, it may still be possible that your site becomes compromised. That means hackers can breach your security and perform malicious activity on your site. 
There could be two things that can happen in case your website gets hacked? 1. You will lose access/control over your website 2. Either your database files will be replaced, or modified with malicious code/scripts or new infected files will be added to your database.
Website security breaches can happen in many ways such as hackers may be able to exploit the most common WordPress security issues. It also happens when you use outdated WordPress themes, plugins, etc. 
You must be aware that if a security breach happens on your site, it can take an average of 200 days to detect. So, it is obvious that the more time you take to discover a security breach the more damage you will have to your site.
But it will not happen anymore,
Solid Security offers a quick file change detection feature so that you can quickly find the security breach issue and take preventive security measures to avoid major harm to your business. 
Solid Security scans your entire website’s files and makes an index of all the files. When it runs the next scan, it will compare previously indexed files with newly scanned files to find any change that occurs in your database. 
Solid Security also sends you an alert notification about file changes via email so that you can investigate the issue and fix it before a security breach. 
You can also configure this email notification feature in such a way that you don’t receive notifications frequently about known file changes such as theme updates, plugin updates, or WordPress core updates. 
You are also allowed to create a Database Backup (manually or scheduled time) right there from the WordPress dashboard that can used further.
10: Security Log and Version Management
Do you know which activity is happening on your site? Then your answer would probably be “NO” because you are aware of only those activities which are done by you. 
But let me make one thing clear there are a lot of activities that keep happening simultaneously in the backend of your website. When you try to track those activities manually, it becomes a challenging and time-consuming job. 
But thanks to Solid Security which scans your entire website a makes a log of all the activities that are occurring in the backend of your website as well as displays these logs in a customizable card format in one place.  
This site activity log contains a variety of data such as site login, file change, user creation, user activity, theme/ plugin installation & removal, changes made in the post or page along with brute force attacks, and much more. 
This feature is very helpful against unauthorized access to your website, damage caused by using outdated products, malicious bot attacks, etc.
Solid Security monitors all activity on your site and is able to detect unexpected activity that may lead to a breach of your site security. Along with this, if it detects any unusual activity, it also notifies you immediately through email.
Plus, Solid Security offers auto-update and version management features that keep your site up to date with the latest security patches so you don’t leave any vulnerable entry points for hackers. 
It helps you keep your site more secure against any possible threat that could cause major damage to your profitable business.
11: User Security Checks and Password Requirements

Pin
These features are beneficial when you have multiple admins and users on your site. It adds an additional layer of security to keep hackers away from your site. 
Although you are following every security measure to keep your site protected against any possible threat what about other users and admin of your site?
If any of them are not following security measures and using weak/ compromised passwords, it could make your site vulnerable to hackers’ entry.
That is why user security checks and password requirements features have a great role here. You can audit user security from time to time to ensure that every user and admin is following the best security compliance and strong password policy all the time.
By using the user security checks feature you can monitor several things of all the users and admins of your website.
Here are they,

2FA is enabled or not
What is password strength
Age of password
Last time login and session
Role of users

If you find any weak security practices or unknown sessions by users, you can either log out from everywhere or force them to follow strong security measures to avoid any unexpected security breach.
From here you can also manage the role of your user and admin of your site. Apart from that using the password requirement feature you can force users to use strong passwords, password expiration times, deny compromised passwords, etc. so that everyone has the same level of security.
That is how you can make your site more secure all the time.
12: Integration with Solid Central

PinPin
Are you the owner of multiple WordPress websites? So, you would be aware of the amount of time spent managing all those websites.
Whenever you have to work on a website, you have to log in to the admin dashboard of each website every time. It is obvious that a lot of your time is wasted in this process.
But what if you get access to all the websites from one place so that you can reduce your burden and save a lot of time too.
Therefore, Solid Security provides you easy integration with its sister plugin called “Solid Central” so that you can log in to all your websites from one place and do the necessary work.
This integration allows you to perform the following admin tasks,

WordPress Core, Themes & Plugin Update
Uptime Monitoring of WordPress
SEO Checker + GA and GSC Report
One Click Backup with Solid Backups
Client’s WordPress Dashboard Customization
WordPress Security Checks
And Much More

Apart from that, using Solid Backups Plugin you can take a backup (online and offline) of your entire website and restore it as and when required.

Try Solid Security Pro Risk-Free

Strong Reason to Purchase Solid Security Pro
Although, I have explained almost every feature and functionality that Solid Security provides to make your site super secure from any unexpected threat. 
But if you are still confused about whether you should buy Solid Security or not then here are some amazing benefits that surely attract you. 
So, let’s have a quick highlight of those awesome points,

Brand Trust: SolidWP products come under StellarWP which is a brand of the Liquid Web family, which is a well-known reputed hosting company active since 1997. That means if you are going with Solid Security then you are getting a reliable product for your business.


Ease of Use: Solid Security offers a quick setup and an easy interface so you don’t spend much time configuring security settings. Apart from that, it provides a dynamic and customizable dashboard that helps you monitor all the security events in one place. It also allows you to identify the critical issue that makes your site vulnerable so that you can take necessary action to avoid any malicious attack.


Complete WordPress Security Solution: By using Solid Security, you are going take your business security to the next level. It offers comprehensive security features and functionality (explained above) that provide 360-degree protection against any unexpected threat.


Actionable Security Report: Solid Security scans all your websites and provides actionable and detailed activity data in a digestible format. This report, lets you determine how Solid Security protects your site and what security weaknesses need to be fixed to protect your business. 


Regular Security Updates: The Internet is unpredictable and many things (security threats) keep changing every second. That is why Solid Security offers regular security patches and updates based on new threats to keep your business security one step ahead of hackers’ reach.


Compatibility: As Solid Security is a WordPress Security Plugin, it works smoothly with almost all the WordPress themes, plugins, and hosting with existing website setup so that you can have the best security compliance on your website or business to keep hackers away. 


Excellent Support System: Solid Security offers dedicated priority support via email by their expert till your problem gets solved. Apart from that, they have an extensive tutorial, knowledge base, and documentation that you can use for common issues and plugin setups. Solid Security has a record of an average 1-2 hours response time with a 98% happiness score. 


Competitive Pricing Structure: It offers affordable pricing compared to other security plugins available in the market. They currently have 3 plans and, all come with the same features & functionality except a site license that you can choose according to your budget and needs.


Intelligent Setting Import & Export: As we all know configuring new products and services requires a lot of time. So, to speed up your Solid Security configuration now you have the export & import settings feature. Now you can directly export and import all your Solid Security Settings in a single click. Apart from that,, you are also allowed to control which settings will be exported or imported.


Pin

30-Days Refund Policy: All plans of the Solid Security plugin come with an industry-standard 30-day money-back guarantee. That means if you are unsatisfied with their products and services you can ask for a full refund within 30 days from the date of purchase.

Overall, Solid Security offers a range of advanced features and functionality to keep your site safe from any unexpected security threats such as malware, automated attacks, etc.
Solid Security is a step ahead of any of its competitors when it comes to one-stop robust security solutions with reliability. But at what cost can you take full advantage of all those Solid Security Premium features?
So let’s see what is the Solid Security pricing and plan structure,

Get Solid Security Pro Today

Solid Security Pro Pricing Structure
When it comes to buying a product or service, pricing is one of the main deciding factors whether you will buy that product or not. That is why Solid Security offers a very competitive and affordable pricing structure that is suitable for all kinds of business owners.
Currently, they have five types of plans with different price tags (based on the number of site licenses) that you can purchase according to your needs and budget.
All the Solid Security Pro plans have the same features and functionality. The only difference is the number of site licenses you get. 
Here are the Solid Security plans and pricing structure (Yearly Subscriptions),
DetailsPlan1Plan2Plan3Plan4Plan5Pricing$99$199$299$399$499Site License15102550Pro Features✔✔✔✔✔Premium Support✔✔✔✔✔Plugin Update✔✔✔✔✔PatchStack Integration✔✔✔✔✔Login Security✔✔✔✔✔Passwordless Login✔✔✔✔✔Site Scan✔✔✔✔✔
Note: Solid Security is available for more than 50+ site licenses, if you have more than 50+ websites just contact them for pricing information.
Every plan comes with an industry-standard 30-day money-back guarantee, which means if you are not satisfied with their products and services you can ask for a full refund within 30 days from the date of purchase.
All the Solid Security Pro plans come with the same advanced features and functionality that I discussed earlier. However, you can read the next point where I have compared the Solid Security Pro vs Free which will clear your doubt about whether you should use a free version or buy Solid Security Pro.
Important Info: SolidWP offers a bundle subscription called Solid Suite in which you will get all of SolidWP’s products such as Solid Security, Solid Central, and Solid Backups under a single subscription. When you purchase a Solid Suite Subscription you have full access to Solid WP products at FREE OF COST.

Buy Solid Security Pro Now

Solid Security Free vs Pro (Comparison)
As you have seen, Solid Security offers a bunch of security features and functionality that make your site almost unbreakable to hackers. 
It provides various methods to keep your business protected against any possible threat such as unauthorized login attempts, malicious bot attacks, malware attacks, cyber-attacks, etc. 
Some of the features are available in the free version and many of them are premium features that come with the Solids Security Pro version. 
If you are satisfied with Solid Security’s basic features then you can go with its free version. But if you’re serious about your business and looking for a complete security solution then I would suggest you purchase the Solid Security Pro license. 
Here are the differences between Solid Security Pro and the Free version so that you can make the right decision while using this fantastic security plugin.
FeaturesSolid Security FreeSolid Security ProBan Users & Bad Bots✅✅Block Specific IP and User✅✅Database Backups✅✅File Change Detection✅✅Spam Comment Protection✅✅Brute Force Attack Protection✅✅Insightful Security Log✅✅Notifications via Email ✅✅Customizable Lockout Messages✅✅Strong Password Enforcement✅✅File Permission Check✅✅Solid Central Integration✅✅Auto Site-Scanner✅✅Two-factor authentication (2FA)✅✅Settings Import & Export❌✅WordPress Core File Comparison❌✅User Activity Log❌✅Privilege of Temporary Access❌✅WP-CLI Integration❌✅Password Expiration❌✅User Security Check❌✅Real-time Security Dashboard❌✅Magic Links❌✅Passwordless Login❌✅Biometric Login with Passkey❌✅Deny Compromised Passwords❌✅Version Management❌✅Security Grade Report❌✅In-Built reCAPTCHA❌✅User Groups❌✅Trusted Devices❌✅Private, Ticketed Support❌ ✅Try FreeGet Pro
By looking at this comparison of Solid Security Pro and Free, you can easily figure out that the Free version has limited features while Solid Security Pro has lots of advanced features that can automate robust WordPress security amazingly as well as save you a lot of time.
Undoubtedly, Solid Security Pro can be the right choice to secure your profitable business in multiple ways and make your security policy more robust.
Now, it’s time to get Solid Security Pro installed on your site and protect your business quickly. So, why are you waiting? just follow the next step and get started with Solid Security,
Getting Started with Solid Security Pro
To avail of all the excellent features and functionality of Solid Security Pro, you need to first buy one of their plans. After that, you can download the zip file, install it, and activate it on your WordPress site.
The process is quite simple, you just need to follow the steps given below. So, let’s see how,
Step 1. Select Your Plan
First, you need to click on this “Exclusive Link” that will take on the Solid Security Pro official website. Here you need to select the plan (Number of Site License) and then click on the “Buy Now” button that will take you to another page. 

Pin
Step 2. Review Order
On this page, you need to review your order and provide a Coupon Code (if you have one) for an instant discount to some extra money. After that click on the “Checkout” button that will redirect you to the next page. 

Pin
Step 3. Login OR Create an Account
Here you will see two buttons, the first is “Continue as Guest” to create a new account and the second is to “Login” with an existing SolidWP account. Just click on the preferable button for the next step. 

Pin
Step 4. Provide Email
If you have an existing account then log in to your account (on the previous step) and place an order otherwise click on the Continue as Guest Button and provide a valid email address to create a new SolidWP account. after that click on the “Continue” button for the next step.

Pin
Step 5. Enter Billing Address
Here you need to provide billing information such as address, city, state/province, zip/ postal code, and country. After that, you need to cross-check your entire details and then click on the “Continue to Checkout” button for the next step.

Pin
Note: If there are any discounts available on Solid Security, they will be applied automatically, OR if you have any coupon code then you can use it here to save your money.
Step 6. Checkout
On this page, you need to provide your first & last name and select the payment method (Credit Card or PayPal) for payment transactions. after that click on the “Submit Payment” button to complete the purchase of the Solid Security Pro Plugin. when the transaction is successful payment, you will receive an email regarding your recent purchase. 

Pin
Now you can log in to your Solid account and download the plugin zip file. After downloading the Solid Security Pro plugin zip file, you need to upload, install, and activate it on your WordPress website.
Once the Solid Security Plugin gets activated on your site, you will be asked to configure settings. Just follow the setup wizard to configure Solid Security settings as per your requirements.
Here is the detailed onboarding guide for Solid Security (Getting Started with Solid Security Pro) that will help you configure plugin settings quickly and efficiently and secure your website ASAP.

Get SolidSecurity Pro Today

It is a human tendency they always look for some alternative. So, there are many Solid Security alternatives available in the market that you can choose from.
But make sure the product which you’re going to buy is better in all respects. It should not happen that you just consider one or two reasons and purchase that product.
So, here I am comparing Solid Security with another security plugin (Wordfence) so that you can make the right purchase.
Let’s Start,
Solid Security vs Wordfence Security
If you search for WordPress Security plugins then you will find a lot of solutions but very few of them (Solid Security, Wordfence, Securi, MalCare, etc.) stand in the competition. 
If you look for close competition then Solid Security and Wordfence come together and are also favorite ones for every digital marketer. 
But before you make any decision you must see the Solid Security and Wordfence comparison. 
Here are they,
FeatureSolid SecurityWordfence SecurityFree Version✅✅Pro Version✅✅Price$99/Year$119/YearLogin Security✅✅2FA & reCAPTCHA✅✅Brute Force Protection✅✅File Change Detection✅✅Plugin Theme Vulnerability Detection✅✅Site Scanner✅✅Hide WP Login/URL✅❌Disable WordPress File Editing✅❌Passwordless Login✅❌Biometric Login✅❌Password Expiration✅❌Trusted Device✅❌Refuse Compromised Password✅✅Magic Link Login✅❌Version Management✅❌Grade Report✅❌Malware Scan ✅✅Away Mode✅❌File Permission Check✅❌Force SSL✅❌
There are many other premium features available in the Solid Security Pro which you will not get in the WordFence Security. This comparison of Solid Security and Wordfence shows that Solid Security Pro is a clear winner in terms of features and functionality as well as in pricing.
Solid Security offers comprehensive security features that strengthen your WordPress site security all around whereas Wordfence is far behind as it doesn’t have many advanced features that Solid Security Pro provides.
So, in my opinion, Solid Security could be the more reliable, feature-rich, and affordable security solution for you compared to Wordfence.

Try Solid Security Pro for 30 Days

FAQs Related to Solid Security Pro



What is Solid Security Pro?

It is the well-known popular WordPress Security Plugin offered by SolidWP LLC. which is a StellarWP product. Solid Security offers a wide range of security features and functionality to keep your site protected against any unexpected threat.



Is Solid Security Pro a Good Plugin?

In my opinion, Solid Security is one of the best and features in-rich WordPress security plugins that provide all-around security efficiently. If you are looking for a robust WordPress Security solution then Solid Security could be the perfect choice for you.



Does Solid Security Have a Free Version?

Yes, Solid Security offers its Free version that has very limited features and functionality. But if you want to strengthen your site’s security more efficiently then you must go for its Pro version.



Why Should You Purchase Solid Security Pro?

There are a lot of reasons that force you to buy Solid Security Pro. Here are some amazing benefits which you will get such as secure login, brute force attack protection, site scan for malware, file change detection, user role manager, and much more.



Does Solid Security Pro Have a Refund Policy?

Yes, Solid Security Pro offers industry industry-standard 30-day money-back guarantee on each plan. That means if you are not satisfied with their product and service you can ask for a full refund within 30 days of the purchase date.




Final Thought on Solid Security Review
That is all in the Solid Security Plugin Review and I have covered almost everything that you must know about this amazing product.
Remember No WordPress Security Plugins can prevent 100% attacks however having a trusted and feature-rich security solution could reduce the chance of your site getting hacked.
That is why I would recommend you to try Solid Security Pro which provides multiple security features and functionality so that you can make your website more secure against any possible threat.
No matter which business you are in if you are looking for strong security solutions to keep your business away from automated attacks, malicious attacks, and cyber-attacks Solid Security could win your heart. 
Overall, it is a great security plugin that offers secure login protection, passwordless and biometric login, auto update & version management, and insightful activity log so that you can identify security weaknesses and take appropriate action to fix them.
By using Solid Security Plugin you can add an extra security layer to your site/ business to be one step ahead of potential hackers. 
If you find this Solid Security Plugin Review helpful then kindly share it with your community so that they can also get benefit. 
Solid Security Pro Review 2023Solid Security offers the fastest, easiest, and most innovative way to protect your business from several security threats such as brute force attacks, malicious bots attacks, cyber-attacks, and much more.-BloggingTryPinEase of UseFeaturesPricingReliability SummarySolid Security Pro is one of the best and industry-leading WordPress Security plugins that provides numerous ways to secure your website efficiently from any unexpected threat. If you’re serious about your business and looking for a robust security solution then you must try Solid Security Pro and keep yourself one step ahead of hackers.5

Get Solid Security Pro Today

Have You Enjoyed, Please Share!!FacebookTwitterLinkedInPinterestEmailShare 





Leave a comment Cancel replyCommentName
Email
Website
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 

 










   Blogging Guide
  How to Get Right Domain Name
  How To Choose the Right Hosting
  How to Start a Profitable Blog
  How to Write Your First Blog Post
  How to Drive Traffic on Blog


Review Article
  Rocket.net Hosting Review
  Solid Security Pro Review
  Rank Math SEO Plugin Review
  MonsterInsights Plugin Review
  Elementor Page Builder Review


  Popular Post
  How to Speed Up WordPress Site
  Best Social Media Share Plugin
  5 Fastest WordPress Theme
  Proven SEO Strategy 2023
  Semrush Content Marketing Toolkit




 Design with GeneratePress Pro & Kadence Blocks | Hosted on FastComet Hosting | Optimize with Surfer SEO | Speedup by WPRocket & BunnyCDN



About | Contact | Disclaimer | Privacy | Contribute


BloggingTry © 2023 • All Right Reserved




By visiting our website, you accept use of cookies and agree to privacy policy.Accept















Share to SupportFacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInBufferRedditMixTelegramMessengerWhatsAppSMSPocketTumblrEmailLineVKFlipboardXingHacker NewsCopyYummly


