


After barbaric Israel attack, Biden must stop appeasing Iran










 

 





























 





















































































































 













 





































Primary Menu





Sections







				Search			




				Search			






	Skip to search results

News
Metro
Page Six
Sports

NFL
MLB
NBA
NHL
College Football
College Basketball


Post Sports+
Sports Betting
Business

Personal Finance


Opinion
Entertainment

TV
Movies
Music
Celebrities
Awards
Theater


Shopping
Lifestyle

Weird But True
Health
Sex & Relationships
Viral Trends
Human Interest
Parenting
Fashion & Beauty
Food & Drink
Travel


Real Estate
Media
Tech
Astrology
Video
Photos
Visual Stories
Sub Menu 1

Today’s Paper
Covers
Columnists
Horoscopes
Games
Sports Odds
Podcasts
Careers


Sub menu 2

Email Newsletters
Official Store
Home Delivery
Tips


 



Search



Email





New York Post






 







			October 25, 2023		





				Search			





Search






Recommended

	Skip to main content

















































































 











 






 







 











Opinion



FacebookTwitter


Flipboard

WhatsAppEmailCopy 




		After barbaric Israel attack, Biden must get tough and stop appeasing Iran	


	By
	
Michael Makovsky and 	
			


										Social Links for Michael Makovsky				



View Author Archive




Get author RSS feed




















Blaise Misztal



										Social Links for Blaise Misztal				



View Author Archive




Get author RSS feed


































		Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.	

		Back to Reading	







Published 
Oct. 10, 2023, 8:05 p.m. ET










 
					United States President Joe Biden makes remarks on the terror attacks in Israel.						
							Chris Kleponis / CNP / SplashNews.com						








More On:

					Israel war 2023				






								Gov. DeSantis orders first ban in US of pro-Palestinian student group accused of ‘harmful support’ of terrorists							





								Heads of Hamas, Hezbollah and Islamic Jihad meet as queen of Jordan rips ‘glaring double standard’ of West							





								Note found on body of Hamas terrorist calls for beheadings, removal of hearts  							





								Cornell professor who found Hamas attack ‘exhilarating’ takes leave of absence							







Hamas’ brutal weekend assault — murdering, wounding and abducting thousands of civilians — is being called Israel’s 9/11. 
It has compelled Israel to restore its deterrence, including by conducting what appears to be a campaign to obliterate the terrorists’ military capabilities, after tolerating their rule in Gaza for 15 years.
The barbaric attack should also prompt a reorientation of US policy in the Middle East — especially away from accommodating Iran, which heavily funds Hamas and helped plot the onslaught.
President Joe Biden should be commended for offering Israel “rock solid and unwavering” support. 
His administration is reportedly pledging to provide billions of dollars in additional military assistance as Israel pivots to what looks to be — albeit in a fluid situation — a significant ground attack on Gaza and prepares in case Iranian proxy Hezbollah attacks from the north. 
Biden’s strong pro-Israel statements have been most welcome, but unfortunately, and tellingly, he did not even mention Iran in his latest remarks Tuesday.
It’s debatable whether Biden’s recent unfreezing of $6 billion in Iranian assets, in return for five Americans hostages, helped fund the Hamas attack, as some Republicans claim. The attack took time to plan and the money may not have been spent yet, but Tehran could budget based on it.
Yet the administration’s extremely lax enforcement of existing sanctions has undeniably enabled Iran to reap tens of billions of dollars. 


3

Biden on Tuesday voiced concern for Americans being held hostage in Israel.REUTERS
In 2020, under President Donald Trump’s maximum-pressure policy, Iranian oil-export revenue was an estimated $8 billion. 
Under Biden, it was as much as $37 billion in 2021 and $54 billion in 2022 and is expected to be $46 billion in 2023.
In three years, Iran arguably will have earned some $30 billion more than if the Trump enforcement had continued. 
Its accessible foreign-exchange reserves have soared accordingly, from around $6 billion at the end of 2020 to a projected $43 billion in 2023.
This economic windfall might have enabled Tehran before 10/7 to boost its funding of Hamas as well as Palestinian Islamic Jihad and Hezbollah, all of which have ratcheted up their attacks on Israel this year. 


3

Palestinians inspect the damage following an Israeli airstrike on the El-Remal aera in Gaza City on October 9, 2023.ZUMAPRESS.com
If Iran was able to funnel $100 million to Hamas in 2020, in 2023, when its oil revenue has increased manyfold, that sum could be far higher.
Further, the Biden administration has emboldened Iranian aggression by avoiding confrontation. 
Our group, JINSA, has tracked more than 90 attacks by Iran and proxies against American soldiers in Iraq and Syria under Biden — and the United States has retaliated only four times.
The administration needs to reverse course from this extreme accommodation of Iran and initiate a far more confrontational approach.
Most important in the near term, Biden should sternly and unequivocally convey to Iranian leaders it holds them responsible for the confirmed death of 14 Americans in Israel and 100-plus hostages, reportedly including Americans, its proxy has taken. 
 


			see also		



 



		Israel’s intelligence failure is a warning for America’s politicized agencies	





Biden should publicly declare that unlike the $6 billion deal, the United States will not pay a cent to Hamas for the hostages’ release. 
Instead, not only will Hamas leadership pay but so, too, will responsible Iranian leaders if Hamas doesn’t release them all.
The administration’s move to redeploy US naval and air assets to the eastern Mediterranean is important to deter further escalation, but it also should be positioning US ships, planes and troops in and around the Persian Gulf to credibly signal it is prepared to hold Iran accountable for any further American casualties. 
We could further deter Iran by concluding a mutual-defense pact with Israel, as JINSA recently discussed.
Long term, Biden should make regime collapse his strategic aim with Iran, applying pressure on all fronts to help heighten the regime’s internal stress and hasten the Iranian people overthrowing it. 
He should certainly do nothing to strengthen the regime by unfreezing assets and not enforcing sanctions.
The administration must ensure Tehran does not achieve nuclear-weapons capability. 
Since the White House is clearly averse to a military confrontation with Iran, the best would be Biden supplying Israel weapons it needs to conduct, if necessary, a military campaign to attack Iranian nuclear facilities. 


3

A missile explodes in Gaza City during an Israeli air strike on October 8, 2023.AFP via Getty Images
That includes expediting delivery to Israel of KC-46 aerial-refueling tankers and precision-guided munitions (both transferred and prepositioned), the latter of which Israel needs anyway for its war against Hamas.
The Biden team should also inform our Mideastern partners the United States will conduct relations with them based on their reaction to this atrocity. 
That involves our Gulf Arab friends, who initially took a detached view; Turkey, which has hosted Hamas leaders for years; and Qatar, a major Hamas funder that placed sole blame on Israel. 
The administration recently designated Qatar a “major non-NATO ally,” which Biden should reconsider unless Qatar changes course.

Like 9/11, 10/7 marks a turning point in the Middle East and a drawing of clearer lines. 
The terror attack should prompt the Biden administration to adopt more confrontational policy toward Tehran.
Michael Makovsky, a former Pentagon official, is president and CEO of the Jewish Institute for National Security of America. Blaise Misztal is JINSA’s vice president for policy.
 



Share this article:

FacebookTwitter


Flipboard

WhatsAppEmailCopy 







Filed under



									hamas								



									hezbollah								



									iran								



									israel								



									Israel war 2023								



									joe biden								



									nuclear weapons								



									terrorism								


10/10/23 





Read Next


				Pickleball’s too much of a racket			


























 what to shop now
 



 

							Shop Wayfair's Way Day sale October 2023: 59 best deals on furniture to decor						





							Wayfair put their best-selling sofas on sale during October Way Day						





							The best Wayfair holiday decorations on sale now for Way Day October 2023						





							Now's the time to buy outdoor patio furniture — Here are the best deals Way Day 2023 has to offer						





							Spend less and save more: 28 affordable Wayfair Way Day deals under $200 on lighting, rugs, more						














 










 




Columnists






					Michael Goodwin				


 





						Are Biden and Obama on Israel's side? Recent actions raise questions					






					Cindy Adams				


 





						Halloween is the time to get spooky and meet some spirits					






					Bob McManus				


 





						Latest migrant poll should scare the hell out of Democrats					







				See All Columnists			













 














 









Covers




				Today's Cover			



						Front Cover					

						Back Cover					

Flip for back cover


 

 





Browse Covers






		Trending Now			
				on NYPost.com			




 


This story has been shared 64,974 times.
64,974






							22-year-old driver who mowed down 4 Pepperdine sorority sisters rearrested, charges upgraded to murder: police						






 


This story has been shared 43,256 times.
43,256






							Teens accused of killing retired police chief laugh, flip off victim’s family in court						






 


This story has been shared 39,704 times.
39,704






							Latest migrant poll should scare the hell out of Democrats						










































Biden on Tuesday voiced concern for Americans being held hostage in Israel. 
REUTERS



Palestinians inspect the damage following an Israeli airstrike on the El-Remal aera in Gaza City on October 9, 2023. 
ZUMAPRESS.com



A missile explodes in Gaza City during an Israeli air strike on October 8, 2023. 
AFP via Getty Images







You are viewing

1 of 3

images


Previous Image



Next Image









Advertisement







 



































				More Stories			






										Page Six									





											Jerry O'Connell claims wife Rebecca Romijn didn't have 'any warning' she'd be in John Stamos' memoir										
















										NYPost									





											22-year-old driver who mowed down 4 Pepperdine sorority sisters rearrested, charges upgraded to murder: police										


















Facebook




Twitter




Instagram




LinkedIn




Email




YouTube








Sections & Features

News
Metro
Sports
Sports Betting
Business
Opinion
Entertainment
Fashion & Beauty
Shopping
Lifestyle
Real Estate
Media
Tech
Health
Travel
Astrology
Video
Photos
Visual Stories
Alexa
Covers
Horoscopes
Sports Odds
Podcasts
Columnists
Classifieds


Post Sports+

Subscribe
Articles
Manage


Newsletters & Feeds

Email Newsletters
RSS Feeds
NY Post Official Store
Home Delivery

Subscribe
Manage Subscription


Delivery Help


Help/Support

About New York Post
Customer Service
Apps Help
Community Guidelines
Contact Us

Tips
Newsroom
Letters to the Editor
Licensing & Reprints
Careers
Vulnerability Disclosure Program




Apps

iPhone App
iPad App
Android Phone
Android Tablet
Advertise

Self Service
Media Kit
Contact




 


© 2023 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Terms of Use
Membership Terms
Privacy Notice
Sitemap


				Your California Privacy Rights			

Do Not Sell My Personal Information


























Share Link




click to copy






















 

















 



