











Fashion Forward: Where BOSS style meets office innovation - BOSS - CNN































 


Skip to content


        Back to CNN    

   





                    Content by                    BOSS


Share



































Fashion Forward
Where BOSS style meets office innovation 














As a younger, emerging workforce familiarizes itself with the office, more is being done to ensure its design reflects not just generational needs, but personalities too. 62% of millennials and almost half (49%) of Gen Zs say work is central to their identities, prompting 78% of business leaders to create a future workplace where they can thrive. 
“Self-expression is core to millennial and Gen Z consumers’ psyche,” explains Nadia Kokni, Senior Vice President of Global Marketing and Brand Communications at HUGO BOSS. “We’ve seen this manifested in the varied ways they use fashion to express their personalities and moods.” And business attire is no exception.
Inspired by the theme “Corpcore”, BOSS presented its Fall/Winter 2023 collection at the Allianz MiCo convention center in Milan on September 22.
An exploration of the brand’s undisputed tailoring heritage, the show reinterpreted the image of a business professional. “Wearing BOSS is about feeling good,” reveals Kokni. “We want to do whatever we can to encourage this unstoppable, positive mindset.”







Click to go previous slide


Click to go next slide


Click to open image fullscreen






































1
of
6


  
  
  







							Gigi Hadid opened the BOSS Fall/Winter 2023 fashion show						



							Anthony Joshua						



							Alica Schmidt						



							Noah Lyles						



							Ashley Graham						



							Mark Vanderloo						





click to close modal


  
  
  









































Harmonizing technology and humanity
This unique exhibition saw the venue transform into BOSS Techtopia, a utopian workplace where the needs of body and mind were met through carefully considered design. Corporate facilities were blended seamlessly with wellness oases, while futuristic technologies were a purposeful addition to human interactions—perhaps none more so than the social humanoid robot Sophia.
Since her activation in 2016, she has been a “living” example of the limitless possibilities of technology. “Working with Sophia [at BOSS Techtopia] was the ultimate expression of AI exploration and consumer curiosity,” claims Kokni. As guests entered the event space, she warmly welcomed them and engaged in open conversation. She was also granted a front-row seat at the fashion show where she reacted to the models as they took to the runway.
Dressed in a BOSS dark red pinstripe suit and a black monogram leather bag, Sophia embodied the BOSS style. Before the show, she explained:

“Fashion is a perfect way for everyone to express their personality. I wanted to pick something unique that makes me feel empowered.”















A valued addition to what was a diverse guest list of brand ambassadors, VIP attendees, and emerging talents, Sophia was a stark reminder of the way technology and humanity can coexist. This synergy was further captured at BOSS Techtopia through hologram-lined corridors, an AI-infused lobby, and a future-forward runway.
It epitomized “what the office of the future could be,” says Kokni—a vision that Gen Zs are increasingly expecting business leaders to fulfil. As the first generation to not know a world without technology, members want to work in an environment that nurtures their digital proficiency and embraces the latest innovations.






Finding an equilibrium that matters
Technology is an enabler of work as much as it is of wellness. And for millennials and Gen Zs, this balance is often a deciding factor when it comes to prospective employment. In fact, eight in ten cite mental health support and policies as a top factor when considering an employer.
In acknowledgement of employee wellbeing, several safe rooms were installed around the runway at BOSS Techtopia. From meditative practices—like yoga and light therapy—to serene workspaces incorporating natural, sensory, and ergonomic design, each one worked to inspire a creative energy.







Click to go previous slide


Click to go next slide


Click to open image fullscreen

































1
of
5


  
  
  







							Wellness rooms stimulated a serene work environment 
						



							Futuristic graphics were projected to reflect the BOSS technicality						



							The AromaSynth Lab presented the new BOSS Bottled Elixir fragrance						



							Every box was dedicated to tranquility, creativity, and positivity						



							Plant-filled meeting spaces surrounded the runway						





click to close modal


  
  
  



































“Our ambition is to be the leading premium fashion platform worldwide. This means we have to be a part of the revolution, testing and learning from new technologies to deliver the best products and experiences to our consumers,” explains Kokni.
BOSS Techtopia is just one example of how the brand is moving towards this goal. By opening a new world of work to guests, it not only created a space for technology to realize its full potential but for every “BOSS” to find their true selves.









How BOSS revisited its tailoring heritage


          Learn more        













Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
AdChoices
About Us


      © 2023      Cable News Network, Inc. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All rights reserved. CNN Sans ™ &      © 2023      Cable News Network.    







